*Encyclopaedia of Mathematics online encyclopaedia from Springer, Graduate-level reference work with over 8,000 entries, illuminating nearly 50,000 notions in mathematics.
*HyperMath site at Georgia State University*FreeScience Library The mathematics section of FreeScience library*Rusin, Dave: "The Mathematical Atlas".
A guided tour through the various branches of modern mathematics.
(Can also be found at NIU.edu.
Estonia (; , ), officially the Republic of Estonia (, ), is a country in the Baltic region of Northern Europe.
It is bordered to the north by the Gulf of Finland, to the west by the Baltic Sea, to the south by Latvia (343 km), and to the east by Lake Peipus and Russia (338.6 km).
Across the Baltic Sea lies Sweden in the west and Finland in the north.
==History=====Prehistory===Human settlement in Estonia became possible 11,000 to 13,000 years ago, when the ice from the last glacial era melted.
According to radiocarbon dating it was settled around 11,000 years ago at the beginning of the ninth millennium BC.
Evidence has been found of hunting and fishing communities existing around 6500 BC near the town of Kunda in northern Estonia.
Bone and stone artefacts similar to those found at Kunda have been discovered elsewhere in Estonia, as well as in Latvia, northern Lithuania and in southern Finland.
This is the only word of their language recorded from antiquity.
Their sailing vessels were called pirate ships by Henry of Livonia in his Latin chronicles written at the beginning of the 13th century.
Perhaps the most famous raid by Oeselian pirates occurred in 1187, with the attack on the Swedish town of Sigtuna by Finnic raiders from Couronia and Oesel.
The former was a warship, the latter mainly a merchant ship.
The superior god of Oeselians as described by Henry of Livonia was called Tharapita.
According to the legend in the chronicle Tharapita was born on a forested mountain in Virumaa (), mainland Estonia from where he flew to Oesel, Saaremaa The name Taarapita has been interpreted as "Taara, help!
He managed to assemble an army of 6,000 Estonian men from different counties, but he was killed during the Battle of St. Matthew's Day in September 1217.
The Duchy of Estonia was created out of the northern parts of the country and was a direct dominion of the King of Denmark from 1219 until 1346, when it was sold to the Teutonic Order and became part of the Ordenstaat.
In 1343, the people of northern Estonia and Saaremaa rebelled against German rule in the St. George's Night Uprising, which was put down by 1345.
Reval (known as Tallinn since 1918) gained Lübeck Rights in 1248 and joined an alliance of trading guilds called the Hanseatic League at the end of the thirteenth century.
After the decline of the Teutonic Order following its defeat in the Battle of Grunwald in 1410, and the defeat of the Livonian Order in the Battle of Swienta on 1 September 1435, the Livonian Confederation Agreement was signed on 4 December 1435.
Language, education, religion, and politics were transformed.
Church services were now conducted in the vernacular instead of in Latin, previously used.
During the Livonian War in 1561, northern Estonia submitted to Swedish control.
In 1629, mainland Estonia came entirely under Swedish rule.
This division persisted until the early twentieth century.
In 1632, a printing press and university were established in the city of Dorpat (known as Tartu since 1918).
This period is known in Estonian history as "the Good Old Swedish Time.
"The population of Estonia increased steadily until the outbreak of the plague in 1657.
During the Great Famine of 1695–97 some 70,000 people perished – almost 20% of the population.
The war devastated the population of Estonia, but it recovered quickly.
Among the leaders of the movement were Johann Voldemar Jannsen, Jakob Hurt and Carl Robert Jakobson.
In response to a period of Russification initiated by the Russian Empire in the 1890s, Estonian nationalism took on more political tones, with intellectuals first calling for greater autonomy and, later, complete independence from the Russian Empire.
===Declaration of independence===Following the Bolshevik takeover of power in Russia after the October Revolution of 1917 and German victories against the Russian army, between the Russian Red Army's retreat and the arrival of advancing German troops, the Committee of Elders of the Maapäev issued the Estonian Declaration of Independence in Pärnu on 23 February and in Tallinn on 24 February 1918.
After winning the Estonian War of Independence against both Soviet Russia and the German Freikorps and "Baltische Landeswehr" volunteers, the Tartu Peace Treaty was signed on 2 February 1920.
The Republic of Estonia was recognised (de jure) by Finland on 7 July 1920, Poland on 31 December 1920, Argentina on 12 January 1921, by the Western Allies on 26 January 1921 and by India on 22 September 1921.
Initially a parliamentary democracy, the parliament (Riigikogu) was disbanded in 1934, following political unrest caused by the global economic crisis.
===World War II===The fate of Estonia in World War II was decided by the German–Soviet Nonaggression Pact and its of August 1939.
World War II began with the invasion and subsequent partition of an important regional ally of Estonia – Poland, by a joint operation of Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union.
On 12 June 1940, the order for a total military blockade on Estonia was given to the Soviet Baltic Fleet.
The Red Army exited from their military bases in Estonia on 17 June.
Finally the military resistance was ended with negotiations and the Independent Signal Battalion surrendered and was disarmed.
There were two dead Estonian servicemen, Aleksei Männikus and Johannes Mandre, and several wounded on the Estonian side and about ten killed and more wounded on the Soviet side.
On 6 August 1940, Estonia was annexed by the Soviet Union as the Estonian SSR.
Instead the vote to join the Soviet Union was taken by those elected in the elections held the previous month.
Repressive actions were also taken against thousands of ordinary people.
Political prisoners who could not be evacuated were executed by the NKVD.
Contemporary Russian politicians deny that the Republic of Estonia was illegally annexed by the Soviet Union in 1940.
They state that the Soviet troops had entered Estonia in 1940 following the agreement and with the consent of the government of the Republic of Estonia, regardless of how their actions can be interpreted today.
They maintain that the USSR was not in a state of war and was not waging any combat activities on the territory of Estonia; therefore there could be no occupation.
The Red Army retreated behind the Pärnu River – Emajõgi line on 12 July.
After the Soviets were driven out from Estonia, German troops disarmed all the partisan groups.
The Germans used Estonia's resources for their war effort; for the duration of the occupation Estonia was incorporated into the German province of Ostland.
===Soviet Estonia===The Soviet forces reconquered Estonia in the autumn of 1944 after battles in the northeast of the country on the Narva river, on the Tannenberg Line (Sinimäed), in Southeast Estonia, on the Emajõgi river, and in the West Estonian Archipelago.
In the face of the country being re-occupied by the Red Army, tens of thousands of Estonians (including a majority of the education, culture, science, political and social specialists) (estimates as many as 80,000) chose to either retreat with the Germans or flee to Finland or Sweden.
More than 10% of the entire adult Baltic population was deported or sent to Soviet labour camps.
After World War II, as part of the goal to more fully integrate Baltic countries into the Soviet Union, mass deportations were conducted in the Baltic countries and the policy of encouraging Soviet immigration to the Baltic states continued.
In addition to the human and material losses suffered due to war, thousands of civilians were killed and tens of thousands of people deported from Estonia by the Soviet authorities until Joseph Stalin's death in 1953.
Half the deported perished, and the other half were not allowed to return until the early 1960s (years after Stalin's death).
This conflict continued into the early 1950s.
Material damage caused by the world war and the following Soviet era significantly slowed Estonia's economic growth, resulting in a wide wealth gap in comparison with neighbouring Finland and Sweden.
Militarization was another aspect of the Soviet state.
Large parts of the country, especially the coastal areas, were closed to all but the Soviet military.
People not actually residing there were restricted from travelling to them without a permit.
A notable closed military installation was the city of Paldiski, which was entirely closed to all public access.
The city had a support base for the Soviet Baltic Fleet's submarines and several large military bases, including a nuclear submarine training centre complete with a full-scale model of a nuclear submarine with working nuclear reactors.
The Paldiski reactors building passed into Estonian control in 1994 after the last Russian troops left the country.
Immigration was another effect of Soviet occupation.
Hundreds of thousands of migrants were relocated to Estonia from other parts of the Soviet Union to assist industrialisation and militarisation, contributing an increase of about half a million people within 45 years.
Estonia's return to independence became possible as the Soviet Union faced internal regime challenges, loosening its hold on the outer empire.
As the 1980s progressed, a movement for Estonian autonomy started.
The 2004 enlargement of the European Union was the largest single expansion of the European Union, both in terms of territory and population, but not in terms of gross domestic product (wealth).
Estonia was among a group of ten countries admitted to the EU on 1 May 2004.
The Treaty of Accession 2003 was signed on 16 April 2003.
The Estonian political system operates under a framework laid out in the 1992 constitutional document.
===Government===The Government of Estonia () or the executive branch is formed by the Prime Minister of Estonia, nominated by the president and approved by the parliament.
The prime minister also has the right to appoint other ministers and assign them a subject to deal with.
The prime minister has the right to appoint a maximum of three such ministers, as the limit of ministers in one government is fifteen.
It is also known as the cabinet.
The government, headed by the prime minister, thus represents the political leadership of the country and makes decisions in the name of the whole executive power.
Internet voting is used in elections in Estonia.
The first internet voting took place in the 2005 local elections and the first in a parliamentary election was made available for the 2007 elections, in which 30,275 individuals voted over the internet.
Voters have a chance to invalidate their electronic vote in traditional elections, if they wish to.
===Law===According to the Constitution of Estonia () the supreme power of the state is vested in the people.
The people exercise their supreme power of the state on the elections of the Riigikogu through citizens who have the right to vote.
The supreme judicial power is vested in the Supreme Court or Riigikohus, with nineteen justices.
The president, however, does not use these rights very often, having a largely ceremonial role.
He or she is elected by Riigikogu, with two-thirds of the votes required.
As in other spheres, Estonian law-making has been successfully integrated with the Information Age.
===Foreign relations===Estonia was a member of the League of Nations from 22 September 1921, has been a member of the United Nations since 17 September 1991, and of NATO since 29 March 2004, as well as the European Union since 1 May 2004.
Estonia has also signed the Kyoto Protocol.
Indeed, Estonians consider themselves a Nordic people rather than Balts, based on their historical ties with Sweden, Denmark and particularly Finland.
In 2005, Estonia joined the European Union's Nordic Battle Group.
Whereas in 1992 Russia accounted for 92% of Estonia's international trade, today there is extensive economic interdependence between Estonia and its Nordic neighbours: three quarters of foreign investment in Estonia originates in the Nordic countries (principally Finland and Sweden), to which Estonia sends 42% of its exports (as compared to 6.5% going to Russia, 8.8% to Latvia, and 4.7% to Lithuania).
On the other hand, the Estonian political system, its flat rate of income tax, and its non-welfare-state model distinguish it from the Nordic countries and their Nordic model, and indeed from many other European countries.
===Military===The military of Estonia is based upon the Estonian Defence Forces (), which is the name of the unified armed forces of the republic with "Maavägi" (Army), "Merevägi" (Navy), "Õhuvägi" (Air Force) and a paramilitary national guard organisation "Kaitseliit" (Defence League).
The current national military service () is compulsory for men between 18 and 28, and conscripts serve eight-month to eleven-month tours of duty depending on the army branch they serve in.
In 2008, annual military spending reached 1.85% of GDP, or 5 billion kroons, and was expected to continue to increase until 2010, when a 2.0% level was anticipated.
The Estonian Defence Forces have also previously had military missions in Croatia from March until October 1995, in Lebanon from December 1996 until June 1997 and in Macedonia from May until December 2003.
Estonia participates in the Nordic Battlegroup and has announced readiness to send soldiers also to Sudan to Darfur if necessary, creating the very first African peacekeeping mission for the armed forces of Estonia.
In 2007, a military doctrine of an e-military of Estonia was officially introduced as the country was under massive cyberattacks in 2007.
The main cyber warfare facility is the Computer Emergency Response Team of Estonia (CERT), founded in 2006.
The organisation operates on security issues in local networks.
==Economy==As a member of the European Union, Estonia is considered a high-income economy by the World Bank.
The country is ranked 11th in the 2014 Index of Economic Freedom, and the 4th freest economy in Europe.
The unemployment rate is around 11.7%, which is above the EU average, while real GDP growth in 2011 was 8.0%, five times the euro-zone average.
In 2012, Estonia remained the only euro member with a budget surplus, and with a national debt of only 6%, it is one of the least indebted countries in Europe.
Trade focused on the local market and the West, particularly Germany and the United Kingdom.
Only 3% of all commerce was with the USSR.
Before the Second World War Estonia was mainly an agricultural country whose products such as butter, milk and cheese were widely known on the western European markets.
Estonia's market reforms put it among the economic leaders in the former COMECON area.
In 1994, based on the economic theories of Milton Friedman, Estonia became one of the first countries to adopt a flat tax, with a uniform rate of 26% regardless of personal income.
In January 2005, the personal income tax rate was reduced to 24%.
The income tax rate was decreased to 21% by January 2008.
In 1999, Estonia experienced its worst year economically since it regained independence in 1991, largely because of the impact of the 1998 Russian financial crisis.
Estonia joined the WTO in November 1999.
With assistance from the European Union, the World Bank and the Nordic Investment Bank, Estonia completed most of its preparations for European Union membership by the end of 2002 and now has one of the strongest economies of the new member states of the European Union.
Estonia joined the OECD in 2010.
The country has large oil shale and limestone deposits, along with forests that cover 48% of the land.
In addition to oil shale and limestone, Estonia also has large reserves of phosphorite, pitchblende, and granite that currently are not mined, or not mined extensively.
The country currently exports around 3000 tonnes per annum, representing around 2% of world production.
In recent years, public debate has discussed whether Estonia should build a nuclear power plant to secure energy production after closure of old units in the Narva Power Plants, if they are not reconstructed by the year 2016.
In 2007, the construction industry employed more than 80,000 people, around 12% of the entire country's workforce.
Another important industrial sector is the machinery and chemical industry, which is mainly located in Ida-Viru County and around Tallinn.
The oil shale based mining industry, which is also concentrated in East-Estonia, produces around 90% of the entire country's electricity.
Although the amount of pollutants emitted to the air have been falling since the 1980s, the air is still polluted with sulphur dioxide from the mining industry that the Soviet Union rapidly developed in the early 1950s.
In some areas the coastal seawater is polluted, mainly around the Sillamäe industrial complex.
Estonia is a dependent country in the terms of energy and energy production.
In recent years many local and foreign companies have been investing in renewable energy sources.
The importance of wind power has been increasing steadily in Estonia and currently the total amount of energy production from wind is nearly 60 MW while at the same time roughly 399 MW worth of projects are currently being developed and more than 2800 MW worth of projects are being proposed in the Lake Peipus area and the coastal areas of Hiiumaa.
Currently, there are plans to renovate some older units of the Narva Power Plants, establish new power stations, and provide higher efficiency in oil shale based energy production.
Estonia liberalised 35% of its electricity market in April 2010.
The electricity market as whole will be liberalised by 2013.
Estonia has a strong information technology sector, partly owing to the Tiigrihüpe project undertaken in mid-1990s, and has been mentioned as the most "wired" and advanced country in Europe in the terms of e-Government of Estonia.
Skype was written by Estonia-based developers Ahti Heinla, Priit Kasesalu, and Jaan Tallinn, who had also originally developed Kazaa.
===Trade===Estonia has had a market economy since the end of the 1990s and one of the highest per capita income levels in Eastern Europe.
The current government has pursued tight fiscal policies, resulting in balanced budgets and low public debt.
The oldest university is the University of Tartu, established by the Swedish king Gustav II Adolf in 1632.
In 1919, university courses were first taught in the Estonian language.
Today's education in Estonia is divided into general, vocational, and hobby.
The education system is based on four levels: pre-school, basic, secondary, and higher education.
A wide network of schools and supporting educational institutions have been established.
The Estonian education system consists of state, municipal, public, and private institutions.
There are currently 589 schools in Estonia.
===Sports===Sport plays an important role in Estonian culture.
After declaring independence from Russia in 1918, Estonia first competed as a nation at the 1920 Summer Olympics, although the National Olympic Committee was established in 1923.
Estonian athletes took part of the Olympic Games until the country was annexed by the Soviet Union in 1940.
After regaining independence in 1991, Estonia has participated in all Olympics.
Kiiking involves a modified swing in which the rider of the swing tries to go around 360 degrees.
He narrowly missed a chance at a World Chess Championship match on five occasions.
The European Union and its enlargement to the East.
Book in Italian.
L'Unione europea e l'allargamento ad Est.
Greco&Greco editori, Milano, 2004.
ISBN 88-7980-355-7==External links==; Government* The President of Estonia* The Parliament of Estonia* Estonian Government* Estonian Ministry of Foreign Affairs* Statistical Office of Estonia* Chief of State and Cabinet Members; Travel* Official gateway to Estonia* E-Estonia Portal* VisitEstonia Portal; Maps* google.com map of Estonia; General information* Encyclopedia Estonica* Estonian Institute* BBC News – Estonia country profile* Estonia at "UCB Libraries GovPubs"* Key Development Forecasts for Estonia from International Futures;News* Estonian Public Broadcasting* Postimees* Eesti Päevaleht* Õhtuleht* aripaev.ee* Delfi;Weather and timeThe average temperature ranges between −10C and 20C (14F and 68F).
The product logo was created by Erik Möller using a flower photograph taken by Florence Nibart-Devouard, and was originally submitted to an international logo contest for a new Wikipedia logo held in mid-2003.
New York is a state in the United States of America.
Iraq (, , or ; , Kurdish: "Êraq"), officially the Republic of Iraq (Arabic: '; '), is a country in Western Asia.
The country borders Turkey to the north, Iran to the east, Kuwait to the southeast, Saudi Arabia to the south, Jordan to the southwest, and Syria to the west.
In 1831, the Ottomans managed to overthrow the Mamluk regime and imposed their direct control over Iraq.
The population of Iraq, estimated at 30 million in 800 AD, was only 5 million at the start of the 20th century.
The British lost 92,000 soldiers in the Mesopotamian campaign.
King Ghazi ruled as a figurehead after King Faisal's death in 1933, while undermined by attempted military coups, until his death in 1939.
The war ended in stalemate in 1988 and cost the lives of between half a million and 1.5 million people.
Under the terms of the constitution, the country conducted fresh nationwide parliamentary elections on December 15, 2005.
===Foreign relations===On November 17, 2008, the U.S. and Iraq agreed to a Status of Forces Agreement, as part of the broader Strategic Framework Agreement.
On 12 February 2009, Iraq officially became the 186th State Party to the Chemical Weapons Convention.
Under the provisions of this treaty, Iraq is considered a party with declared stockpiles of chemical weapons.
Because of their late accession, Iraq is the only State Party exempt from the existing timeline for destruction of their chemical weapons.
Specific criteria is in development to address the unique nature of Iraqi accession.
A conflict occurred in December 2009, when Iraq accused Iran of seizing an oil well on the border.
Relationships with Turkey are tense, largely because of the Kurdistan Regional Government, as clashes between Turkey and the PKK continue.
In October 2011, the Turkish parliament renewed a law that gives Turkish forces the ability to pursue rebels over the border in Iraq.
Furthermore, Kurdish is now an official language of Iraq alongside Arabic according to Article 4 of the constitution.
LGBT rights in Iraq remain limited.
Targeting people because of their gender identity or sexual orientation is not uncommon and is usually carried out in the name of family honor.
Iraq's population was estimated at only 2 million in 1878.
Iraq's population as announced by the government has reached 35 million amid a post-war population boom.
According to the Central Intelligence Agency, Arabs form 75%–80% of the population.
15% of Iraq's population are Kurds.
Around 20,000 Marsh Arabs live in southern Iraq.
Iraq also has a community of 2,500 Chechens.
In southern Iraq there is a community of Iraqis of African descent, a legacy of the slavery practiced in the Islamic Caliphate beginning before the Zanj Rebellion of the 9th century, and Basra's role as a key port.
Prior to the invasion in 2003, Arabic was the sole official language.
In 2007, the U.N. said that about 40% of Iraq's middle class is believed to have fled and that most are fleeing systematic persecution and have no desire to return.
Refugees are mired in poverty as they are generally barred from working in their host countries.
Early in the 20th century, many of the most prominent musicians in Iraq were Jewish.
In 1936, Iraq Radio was established with an ensemble made up entirely of Jews, with the exception of the percussion player.
As many as 30 movie theatres were reported to have been converted to live stages, producing a wide range of comedies and dramatic productions.
The capital, Ninus or Nineveh, was taken by the Medes under Cyaxares, and some 200 years after Xenophon passed over its site, then mere mounds of earth.
In these cities are found fragments of several great buildings which seem to have been palace-temples.
They were constructed chiefly of sun-dried bricks, and all that remains of them is the lower part of the walls, decorated with sculpture and paintings, portions of the pavements, a few indications of the elevation, and some interesting works connected with the drainage.
Nonetheless, foreign "mujahideen" volunteers came from 43 countries, and the total number that participated in the Afghan movement between 1982 and 1992 is reported to have been 35,000.
One of these was the organization that would eventually be called al-Qaeda, formed by bin Laden with an initial meeting held on August 11, 1988.
In 1991, Ali Mohammed is said to have helped orchestrate bin Laden's relocation to Sudan.
In June 1995, an even more ill-fated attempt to assassinate Egyptian president Mubarak led to the expulsion of EIJ, and in May 1996, of bin Laden, by the Sudanese government.
The bombings were an attempt to eliminate American soldiers on their way to Somalia to take part in the international famine relief effort, Operation Restore Hope.
===1993 World Trade Center bombing===In 1993, Ramzi Yousef used a truck bomb to attack the World Trade Center in New York City.
Yousef hoped this would kill 250,000 people.
