Select your hotel from the list.
Select your destination from the list.
Bar, 24-Hour Front Desk, Terrace, Non-Smoking Rooms, Elevator, Express Check-In / Check-Out, Safety Deposit Box, Soundproofed Rooms, Design Hotel, Luggage Storage, Allergy-Free Room Available.
Wireless internet is available in public areas and is free of charge.
Wired internet is available in the hotel rooms and is free of charge.
Private parking is possible on site and costs EUR 9.00 per day.
As they may vary per room type; please also check the room description.
If cancelled up to 1 day before the date of arrival, no fee will be charged.
If cancelled later or in case of no-show, the first night will be charged. 
All children under 6 years stay free of charge when using existing bedding.
All children under 2 years stay free of charge for cots.
All children from 6 to 12 years are charged EUR 9.50 per night and person for extra beds.
All older children or adults are charged EUR 19.00 per night and person for extra beds.
Maximum capacity of extra beds / babycots in a room is 1.
Extra beds and baby cots are upon request and need to be confirmed by the hotel.
Supplements will not be calculated automatically in the total costs and have to be paid separately in the hotel.
The hotel reserves the right to pre-authorise credit cards prior to arrival.
All personal data is encrypted and will be processed in a secure way.
Booking.com takes the privacy of your personal data very seriously.
Your personal information will only be used to process your booking.
For more information, read our privacy statement.
Booking.com will not charge you any reservation fees for making this booking, nor charge your credit card.
You will simply pay for your stay at the hotel.
More information can be found in our terms and conditions.
The hotel and Booking.com do not own or control these photos.
Photos provided by Panoramio are under the copyright of their owners.
The guest reviews are submitted by our customers after their stay at hotel daniel.
They are opinions of guests that reflect their experiences when staying at this hotel.
There's a sauna, and the breakfast buffet includes all you can ask for in the morning.
Very well designed, clean, internet access, nice staff. Better than Novotel (vis-a-vis).
Very close to the city center.
Yes, it's for real. We used a Vespa two days and had a blast.
They also have a little car you can rent for 59 euros a day. Internet is free!
Our room was comfy and everyone working for the hotel was incredibly friendly. The hotel is in a great location and was very quiet at night.
Great hotel, nice and clean room, good location, frendly staff.
The guest reviews express the personal opinions of Booking.com customers who filled out a questionaire after their stay at the hotel. 
These opinions do not necessarily represent the views of Booking.com.
The Ibis Graz offers an exceptionally convenient and central location right next to the main train station.
NOTE: You will pay in the local currency after your stay at the hotel.
The exchange rate is subject to fluctuations.
Booking.com: Altstadt Hotel Weisse Taube, Salzburg, Austria - 173 Guest reviews.
When would you like to stay at the Altstadt Hotel Weisse Taube?
Breakfast in the Room, Currency Exchange, Shoe Shine, Car Rental, Tour Desk, Ticket Service.
Wireless Internet Hotspot is available in public areas and costs EUR 1.00 per hour.
Private parking is possible at a location nearby and costs EUR 9.50 per day.
If cancelled up to 2 days before date of arrival, no fee will be charged.
Please note, if cancelled, the first night will be charged.
In case of no-show, the total price of the reservation will be charged.
One child under 2 years stays free of charge when using existing bedding.
There is no capacity for extra beds / cots in the room.