Regulation No 11 concerning the abolition of discrimination in transport rates and conditions, in implementation of Article 79 (3) of the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community 
Whereas Article 79 (3) requires the Council to lay down rules for the abolition, as regards transport within the Community, of the forms of discrimination referred to in Article 79 (1); 
Whereas such abolition requires the prohibition of the above-mentioned forms of discrimination, including the fixing by tariff or otherwise, of transport rates and conditions which, when applied, would constitute discrimination; 
Whereas it will only be possible to check what transport rates and conditions are being applied and to detect any discrimination if carriers and agents concerned with the carriage of goods are required to supply the necessary information, to make out a transport document enabling such information to be checked and to submit themselves to inspection; 
Whereas, for the purpose of ensuring compliance wich these provisions, there should be instituted a system of penalties, such penalties to be subject to review by the Court of Justice exercising unlimited jurisdiction, as provided for in Article 172 of the Treaty; 
HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 
The provisions of this Regulation shall apply to all carriage of goods consigned from or to a point within the territory of a Member State, including the carriage thereof between Member States and third or associated countries.
This Regulation shall apply only to those parts of a journey which take place within the Community.
This Regulation shall apply also to those parts of a journey effected by rail, road or inland waterway where the goods are carried by other modes of transport over other parts of the journey.
Article 3
Where a carriage regulated by the terms of a single contract is performed by successive carriers, each such carrier shall be subject to the provisions of this Regulation in respect of that part of the carriage which he performs. Article 4
1. In the case of transport within the Community, all discrimination by carriers which takes the form of charging different rates and imposing different conditions for carrying the same goods over the same transport links on grounds of the country of origin or of destination of the goods in question shall be prohibited.
This prohibition shall not affect the validity of private law contracts. 2.
The fixing, by tariff or otherwise, of transport rates and conditions which, when applied, would constitute discrimination within the meaning of paragraph 1 shall also be prohibited.
3. The prohibitions laid down in this Article shall take effect from 1 July 1961.
Article 5
1. Before 1 July 1961 Governments shall notify the Commission of any tariff, or formal or other agreement on transport rates and conditions operating in their respective countries, whereby the rates and conditions for carrying the same goods over the same transport links vary according to the country of origin or of destination of the goods in question.
Any measure of this kind subsequently introduced shall also be immediately notified to the Commission.
2. Before 1 July 1961 transport undertakings shall supply their respective Governments with all relevant information concerning the tariffs, and formal or other agreements on transport rates and conditions referred to in the preceding paragraph and shall notify them forthwith of any measure of this kind subsequently introduced. 3.
The provisions of this Article shall apply to the carriage of goods consigned from or to a point within the territory of a Member State.
Article 6
1. A transport document giving the following details shall be required for each consignment of goods within the Community: - name and address of the consignor; 
nature and weight of the goods;
place and date of acceptance of the goods for transport;
place at which the goods are to be delivered;
route to be taken, or distance to be travelled, if these factors justify a rate different from that normally applicable;
frontier crossing points, where appropriate. 2.
Transport documents shall be made out in duplicate and shall be numbered.
One copy shall accompany the goods; the other copy shall be retained by the carrier for two years, reckoned from the date of carriage, and shall be filed in numerical order.
The latter copy shall show the full and final transport charges, whatever the form in which they may be made, any other charges and any rebates or other factors affecting the transport rates and conditions.
3. Where existing documents give all the details specified in paragraph 1 and, in conjunction with carriers' recording and accounting systems, enable a full check to be made of transport rates and conditions, so that the forms of discrimination referred to in Article 79 (1) of the Treaty may be thereby abolished or avoided, carriers shall not be required to introduce new documents. 4.
The carrier shall be responsible for the proper preparation of transport documents. 
Article 7
1. The provisions of Article 6 shall enter into force on 1 July 1961.
2. The Commission may, however, before that date and by a Regulation issued after consulting the Council, postpone for certain classes of transport to be determined later such entry into force until 1 January 1964 at the latest.
Article 8
The provisions of Article 6 shall not apply: (a) to the carriage of goods not exceeding five metric tons in total weight consigned by a single consignor to a single consignee;
(b) to the carriage of goods within a Member State over a distance which in total does not exceed one hundred kilometres;
(c) to the carriage of goods between Member States for a distance which in total does not exceed 30 kilometres.
Article 9
The provisions of Article 6 shall not apply to the carriage of goods by an undertaking for its own requirements, subject to the following conditions: - the goods must be carried by vehicles owned or obtained on deferred terms by the undertaking and driven by its own employee or employees;
transport must be only ancillary to the overall activities of the undertaking;
the goods carried must be the property of the undertaking or must have been sold, bought, loaned, borrowed, let out on hire or hired, produced, processed or repaired by the undertaking;
the purpose of the journey must be to carry the goods to or from the undertaking or to move them, either inside the undertaking, or outside for its own requirements.
Article 10
If, by 1 July 1963, no rules have been made under Article 74 and in implementation of Article 75 of the Treaty as regards the publication of transport rates and conditions, decisions concerning the nature, form and extent of such publication shall be taken, together with any other appropriate measures, within the limits of, and as provided in Article 79 (1) and (3) of the Treaty, account being taken of the fact that such decisions and measures must in all cases be consistent with the common transport policy.
Article 11
1. Without prejudice to Article 5 of this Regulation, Governments and undertakings shall, at the request of the Commission, supply any additional information which may be needed concerning any tariff, or formal or other agreement on transport rates and conditions.
2. The Commission may set a time limit of not less than one month for the forwarding of such information.
3. If the Commission requests an undertaking to supply it with information the Commission shall immediately notify the Government of the Member State in which the undertaking has its seat by forwarding a copy of the request for information to that Government. 4.
Information may be refused if it involves the disclosure of any facts which a Member State considers would be contrary to the essential interests of its security.