Chart Data
Charts can be based on the following data:
Spreadsheet values from Calc cell ranges
Cell values from a Writer table
Values that you enter in the Chart Data Table dialogue box (you can create these charts in Writer, Draw, or Impress, and you can copy and paste them also to Calc)
command line Insert - (Object -) Chart, moved here from deleted shared/01/04160100.xhp
Creates a chart in the current document. To use a continuous range of cells as the data source for your chart, click inside the cell range, and then choose this command. Alternatively, select some cells and choose this command to create a chart of the selected cells.
To insert a chart
To edit a chart
Click a chart to edit the object properties:
Size and position on the current page.
Alignment, text wrap, outer borders, and more.
Double-click a chart to enter the chart edit mode:
Chart data values (for charts with own data).
Chart type, axes, titles, walls, grid, and more.
Double-click a chart element in chart edit mode:
Double-click an axis to edit the scale, type, colour, and more.
Double-click a data point, or a data series in the legend, to edit the graphical values of the data series.
With a data series selected, double-click a single data point to edit the properties of this data point (for example, a single bar in a bar chart).
Double-click any other chart element, or click the element and open the Format menu, to edit the properties.
Click outside the chart to leave the current edit mode.
To print a chart in high quality, you can export the chart to a PDF file and print that file.
Formatting Bar
for charts.
You can right-click an element of a chart to open the context menu. The context menu offers many commands to format the selected element.
Formats the selected title.
Formats the chart area.
Formats the chart wall.
Formats the chart floor.
Formats the chart legend.
Formats the selected axis.
Formats the selected data point.
Formats the major grid.
Formats the minor grid.
Formats the data series.
Formats the stock loss indicators.
Formats the stock gain indicators.
Formats the data labels.
Formats the y-error bars.
Formats the mean value line.
Formats the trendline.
Formats the trendline equation.
Formats the selected data label.
Opens a dialogue box to insert chart titles.
Opens a dialogue box to insert or delete axes.
Opens a dialogue box to insert an axis.
Opens a dialogue box to insert an axis title.
Inserts a major grid.
Inserts a minor grid.
Inserts data labels.