New York, 2-27 May 2005
Statement by the delegation of Malaysia, on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned States Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, at the plenary of the 2005 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, concerning the adoption of the agenda, New York, 11 May 2005
The Non-Aligned States Parties to the NPT welcome the adoption of the agenda of the 2005 Review Conference of the Parties to the NPT.
The agenda establishes the framework for conducting the review of the operation of the Treaty in accordance with article VIII, paragraph 3 of the Treaty, the decisions and the resolution of previous Conferences, in particular the 1995 Review and Extension Conference and the decision of the 2000 Review Conference to adopt by consensus its Final Document.
The Non-Aligned States Parties to the NPT reaffirm their commitment to implement — in good faith — their obligations under the Treaty as well as all the commitments agreed upon by consensus in the 1995 and 2000 Review Conferences.
The Non-Aligned States Parties to the NPT urge all States Parties to implement their obligations and commitments in the same spirit.
The Non-Aligned States Parties to the NPT also reaffirm their commitment to ensure the successful outcome of this Review Conference.
The Non-Aligned States Parties to the NPT request that this present statement be circulated as an official document of this Review Conference.
Report by the Secretary-General concerning the credentials of the deputy representative of the United States of America on the Security Council
Pursuant to rule 15 of the provisional rules of procedure of the Security Council, the Secretary-General wishes to report that he has received a note verbale dated 30 November 2005 from the United States Mission to the United Nations stating that Mr. Alejandro D. Wolff has been appointed deputy representative of the United States of America on the Security Council.
In the opinion of the Secretary-General, that communication constitutes adequate provisional credentials.
Draft decision submitted by the Netherlands
Amendment to rule 22 (Election) of the rules of procedure for the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime
The Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime:
(a) Decides, with effect from its third session, to elect at the end of its session its bureau for the subsequent session and to encourage it to play an active role in the preparation of the regular session as well as in possible intersessional meetings;
(b) Also decides to amend rule 22 of the rules of procedure accordingly, with effect from its third session, to read as follows:
Rule 22 Election
At the end of each session, a President, eight Vice-Presidents and a Rapporteur shall be elected from among the representatives of the States Parties.
The President, the Vice-Presidents and the Rapporteur so elected shall serve as the officers of the subsequent session and guide the secretariat in the preparations for that session and for any intersessional meetings that may be held.
In electing the officers of the session, each of the five regional groups shall be represented by two officers, one of whom shall be from among the representatives of the States that are Parties to the Convention and one or more and if possible all the Protocols that have entered into force by the opening of the session.
The bureau shall include at least two representatives of States that are Parties to all the instruments that have entered into force by the opening of the session.
The offices of the President and Rapporteur of the Conference shall normally be subject to rotation among the five regional groups.
On behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the European Union.
Sixtieth session
Agenda item 124
Proposed programme budget for the biennium 2006-2007
Proposed programme budget for the biennium 2006-2007: Section 29, Office of Internal Oversight Services
Fifteenth report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions
The Advisory Committee recalls that at the time of its consideration of the proposed programme budget for the 2006-2007 biennium, it was informed that there would be a substantial revision to the proposal of the Office of Internal Oversight Services (OIOS) and that this new proposal would be submitted during the sixtieth session of the General Assembly, before the end of 2005 (see A/60/7, paras. IX.1 and 2).
Accordingly, the Committee did not address the initial estimates at that time, but instead, indicated its readiness to take up the estimates as soon as they would be available.
The Committee was subsequently informed that the Secretary-General is not yet in a position to present an updated budget proposal at this time.
It is the intention of the Secretary-General to present proposals during a resumed part of the sixtieth session of the Assembly.
These proposals will reflect the approach of the recently appointed Under-Secretary-General for Internal Oversight Services and will take into account the results of mandated reviews of OIOS.
It is expected that the reviews will provide a full assessment of and recommendations concerning the independence of OIOS, its organizational structure, core functions, funding arrangements and desirable level of resources.
Under the circumstances, the Advisory Committee does not see much utility in providing detailed comments on an initial budget proposal that is soon to be replaced.
It regrets that a replacement proposal was not available at the main part of the sixtieth session of the General Assembly.
The Committee recommends that, pending a resubmission of the budget proposal for OIOS, resources equivalent to the revised level of the 2004-2005 provision, recosted for 2006-2007, be provided.
This would involve a reduction of $338,900 from the estimate under section 29 of the proposed programme budget for 2006-2007.
The Committee further recommends that, as a consequence, any action requiring legislative approval not go forward until the new budget proposal has been acted upon.
The Advisory Committee also expects the new proposal to reflect a greatly improved results-based budgeting presentation.
The Committee considers that OIOS should set the standard in this regard.
For example, in a number of cases, the outputs and targets set are measured in terms of the rate of acceptance and implementation of OIOS recommendations by its client Departments.
In some cases, the targets are set at 50 per cent, a very low level.
In the view of the Committee, even though such targets can provide an indication of the relevance and applicability of the recommendations issued, their implementation rate is not directly under the control of OIOS.
What should be measured are the specific actions to enforce or encourage the full implementation of OIOS recommendations.
OIOS should also consistently follow established logical framework terminology; for example, meetings are typical outputs and not indicators of achievement as indicated in table 29.5, Sect. (b), of the budget proposal (A/60/6 (Sect.
In addition to what is in the proposed programme budget for OIOS, the Secretary-General has also presented revised estimates to the proposed programme budget for 2006-2007.
It is proposed to establish 39 additional temporary posts.
The additional resources requested would bring the total for the biennium to $35,768,400, an increase of $9,635,500 over the initial 2006-2007 budget proposal, including $7,546,900 for posts and other staff costs, $906,400 for consultants and experts, $549,200 for travel of staff, $342,000 for general operating expenses, $9,000 for supplies and materials and $282,000 for furniture and equipment.
The Committee understands that these revised estimates relate only to interim measures for strengthening the capacity of OIOS in audit and investigations, based on the known gaps in audit coverage, the backlog in investigations, new General Assembly mandates and recommendations of the Board of Auditors.
Given the situation with regard to the status of the initial estimates and taking into account the fact that a comprehensive review of OIOS is now under way, the Advisory Committee recommends that an equivalent of general temporary assistance for 39 positions be authorized, pending the consideration of a comprehensive budget proposal as referred to above.