Statement of Government Policy by the Prime Minister, Mr Ingvar Carlsson, at the Opening of the Swedish Parliament on Tuesday, 4 October, 1988.
Your Majesties, Your Royal Highnesses, Mr Speaker, Members of the Swedish Parliament.
Sweden's policy of neutrality is of decisive importance for our peace and independence.
It also contributes to stability and détente in our part of the world.
There is wide popular support for this policy.
It will be pursued with firmness and consistency.
Our policy of neutrality is underpinned by a strong defence.
That safeguards our independence.
Violations of Swedish territory will never be accepted.
The army will be reorganized with the aim of making it more effective. It is the Government's intention to seek broad solutions in issues that are of importance for our national security.
The Government welcomed the agreement between the United States and the Soviet Union on the elimination of land-based intermediate-range nuclear weapons.
Efforts must now, among other things, aim at reducing strategic arms and bringing about a comprehensive test ban treaty.
Sweden is acting in support of this inter alia within the framework of the Six Nation Initiative.
The Government will continue its active efforts on behalf of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the Nordic area and of a corridor in Central Europe free of battlefield nuclear weapons.
By supporting economic and social progress in developing countries the Government wishes to contribute to reversing the economic decline in the poor countries and to alleviating the debt crisis.
Development assistance shall furthermore promote a sustainable use of natural resources and protection of the environment.
The Government will actively promote the convening in 1992 of a global United Nations conference on the environment and development.
In Central America the five Presidents have signed a peace plan which Sweden has given its wholehearted support.
Negotiations are in progress on peace between Iran and Iraq.
The Soviet troops are in the process of withdrawing from Afghanistan.
In the majority of the regional conflicts the United Nations has been able to make important contributions.
Sweden is participating in, among other things, the United Nations Military Observer Groups in Afghanistan and in Iran/Iraq.
We were pleased to learn that the Nobel Peace Prize is being awarded this year to the United Nations peace-keeping forces.
Sweden has participated in practically all the United Nations operations of this kind.
It is also an honour for Sweden that the Secretary-General, in consultation with the parties, has appointed our United Nations Ambassador to be his personal representative at the peace negotiations between Iran and Iraq.
The degrading apartheid system in South Africa must be abolished.
A decision by the United Nations Security Council on mandatory sanctions against South Africa would be the most effective measure to this end.
The conflict in the Middle East is among the most difficult to solve.
The Government actively supports the endeavours to convene an international peace conference under the auspices of the United Nations.
Sweden is dependent on free exchanges of goods and services across national boundaries.
We are setting the pace in the current negotiations to strengthen free trade.
Within the framework of EFTA and in collaboration with the other EFTA countries, the Government will intensify co-operation wit the EC in all fields to the extent it is compatible with our policy of neutrality.
Nordic co-operation will also be developed.
In this context, the requirements of full employment, welfare, a good working environment and trade union participation will be key issues.
Opportunities for study, work and cultural exchanges across national boundaries will be extended.
The Government intends to uphold and strengthen the rule of law in several ways.
The possibilities for courts and public prosecution authorities to carry out their important work will be improved.
The Government will put forward proposals for developing police work and making it more effective.
A proposal for a lower legal limit for the offence of driving with ability impaired by alcohol will be submitted to Parliament.
Crime prevention work at the local level is to be encouraged.
The fight against violence and economic crime will be given priority.
The treatment of offenders must be administered in such a way that prison escapes are prevented.
At the same time the term in prison and non-institutional care must facilitate rehabilitation after discharge.
The goal of our economic policy is full employment and greater prosperity for the whole nation.
The rate of inflation is too high and must be reduced.
Our budget policy must therefore continue to be tight and strong government finances maintained.
Costly reforms will only be carried through to the extent allowed by economic growth, reappraisal of expenditure and by rationalizations in the public sector.
A shortage of labour and low savings restrict growth and push up prices and costs.
Special measures will therefore be taken in order to encourage saving and make better use of people's desire to work.
Proposals will be put forward for increasing competition and keeping down costs in areas where price trends are boosting inflation.
