There is probably no person in the world that the news about the medical operation on close someone does not feel sadness and helplessness .
After news of the black on weekends in the traffic is often not see the sequel in which we participate - and maybe save someone 's life .
There is something that ca n't be bought , because they ca n't produce , but only to give .
Something without which no one can live , and why everyone can get into a situation depending on the goodwill of a stranger .
There is not divided into left and right , the rich and poor , men and women , but only those with A , B or other blood group .
Long tradition Blood banks in Croatia has a long tradition .
The first blood transfusion was performed in Peter hospital in Zagreb back in 1923rd year .
The first blood transfusion with blood group determination occurred in the same hospital a year later .
The donors were relatives and acquaintances of patients whose blood was needed , and also in hospitals , the blood was given to the private apartments and homes .
During the World War II , the blood began to take organized , and this practice has remained until this day , when all the media we often hear calls for voluntary blood banks .
Probably the most job had transfusion departments during the Homeland War , when every drop of blood was worth more than usual .
Day of blood donors is marked since 1963. years and this tradition is maintained to this day .
Solemn assembly On 18th of March 2010 , donors held their 40th Solemn assembly in Brodosplit Shipyard .
Club volunteer blood donors Brodosplit operates in shipyard almost immediately after World War II , in the service of safety at work .
Since 1970 until 1990 operating system of the Red Cross , and since 1990 became independent and operates as an independent association of citizens , ie . named KDDK Brodosplit .
Financed largely from grants Brodosplit employees ( 0.2 % of monthly income ) , donating company Brodosplit and partly from fees for donated blood dose .
The aim of the club is always to provide the necessary dose of blood for employees of shipyard and their families , if need , and donate all the surplus hospital , and the citizens of Split and its surroundings .
The purpose is monitored daily and organized blood banks solely on the blood transfusion department of Clinical Hospital Split ( Members are not approved blood banks in field operations ) .
Every day ten shipyard workers donates blood Response of donors in the shipyard is very big club and membership is usually between 1/ 4 and 1/ 3 of shipyard Brodosplit employees .
The club now has more than 1300 members , and from year to year , constantly increasing .
An indispensable part of the membership are women , which currently has 220 , which makes 17 % of the membership club .
In 2009 year is 2078 doses donated blood .
As a dose of blood is 0.45 lit . , that is 4617 liters of the precious liquid .
If this is divided by the number of working days , on the transfusion every day , on average , were ten shipyard workers who donated blood .
It is understandable that blood volunteer in relation to production activities is secondary task of members , so respects the rule by which every employee of Brodosplit - blood donors are required to notify and obtain consent of the manager to perform blood transfusions during working hours .
More than 34.000 liters of blood This activity is specifically recognized by the Split hospital , and was often praised in the media humanity of Brodosplit donors .
So , Head of transfusion Department , Dr. Jela Martinović -Mikulandra once at the media presented information that donors club Brodosplit in total doses of blood participates with 15 % or 1/ 6 for all doses .
In 40 years never happened to the blood should be , and that the club could not provide .
Month giving , on average are 130 bottles of blood , and since the foundation has given more than 34.000 liters of blood .
All the benefits of blood performed in the clinic for a transfusion of the Split hospital under strict medical supervision .
Blood can give all the healthy people 18 to 65 years .
The rule is that men should give blood every three months and women every four .
For his contribution to the donors are rewarded , and for women over 25 donations and men more than 50 donations welfare do not pay for public transport .
One of the most important clubs in the county This is one of the largest and most important clubs in the city of Split and the county in blood volunteer .
Daily dose provides precious blood on transfusion department , not the actions periodically .
Also , the agreement with Hospital Split , always ready to step up activities for members if they need such hospitals ( eg Christmas and New Year holidays because then the need for more blood , as well as in summer , due to the influx of tourists and a variety of accidents ) .
Volunteer donors Brodosplit club are human and noble people who have expressed a sense of social and often are active in cultural and sports societies .
Giving blood is not harmful to health if they spend all the procedures in the selection of blood donors .
Blood donation not only helps others , but also controls its own health .
Unique in Croatia Club is unique in Croatia for its organization , and constant concern for the members .
Every year , take care to rest for blood donors by organizing trips and seek fresh air three times a year on Bjelolasica , at the island of Hvar and Stubič ke Spa .
Know , thanks to low cost friendly travel , pull up to Rome , Budapest , ...
Also at the annual meeting , members socialize and make divisions anniversary prize , given the number of doses of the blood , and individually highlight the most active providers , such as recorders Vladimir Vuli ć , Marko Ajduković , Cvjetko Paić , Voislav Tripunović , Miroslav Kušč i ć and Veljko Zdilar , with more than 100 donated bottles of blood .
Back in 1965th years , Marko Ajduković first stepped among the magnificent halls of Shipbuilding Industry Brodosplit , in the workshops of machine treatment known as ''mechanics ' ' .
At the same time when began his working life , also established a club volunteer blood donors whose Brodosplit active member becomes 1970th year .
Mr. Marko likes to point out that the blood actually provides more active since 1969 until then now giving 106 donations .
If he knows that covered the 60-year life , it is easy to conclude that this shipyard worker , but as a young man early felt the need for help , giving part of themselves selflessly to others .
Many donors In 2009 , 59 donors were awarded for 10 donations , 52 donors were awarded for 15 donations , 27 donors were awarded for 20 donations , 24 donors were awarded for 25 donations , 24 donors were awarded for 30 donations , 15 donors were awarded for 35 donations , 15 donors were awarded for 40 donations , 10 donors were awarded for 50 donations .
Special rewards for 60 donations was earned by Frane Magazinovi ć , Denis Kranjac , Jozo Tadić i Ante Abramac .
For 70 donations was earned by Dalmiro Luki ć , Mladen Ivica i Ante Goreta .
For 80 donations was earned by Srđ an Kaliterna , Ž eljko Dodik i Budimir Rakvin . The recorders with 100 blood donations are Miroslav Kušč ić and Veljko Zdilar .
Human activity will not stop Steadfast work and fostering constructive relationships with the hospital , but the media and the club is recognized as one of the most important in blood volunteer .
Club action is covered by the media and constantly developed and improved .
How worked up to now , the club will continue , led by the presidency to make the club president Kristijan Brkljač ić , Secretary Ratomir Delić , and members of Andro Jaš ić , Ervin Domazet , Mario Janjić , Ivan Vuko , Denis Kranjac , Goran Lelanović and Bož idar Domljanović .
Despite the recession and uncertainties existence of shipbuilding activities , its human and social activity will not stop .
Working in the club 's is only honorary , and the knowledge that they have just saved someone life is priceless , is proud Rato Deli ć .
Only one blood banks during the year , is the traditional slogan of the members of the club , which regularly invites all potential blood donors to join them .
Dr. Enrih Merdic was born on 30 December 1962 in Osijek .
He finished primary and secondary school in Osijek , where he also graduated from the Faculty of education . He completed his graduate studies and got a PhD in natural sciences ( biology ) at the College of Science in Zagreb .
Since he was nine years old , he has been spending time in folk ensembles .
As a member of the Folk Ensemble Milica Kri ž an he spent the best time of his youth ( 1971-1989 ) as an active dancer .
He got his first chance to pass on the folklore tradition to the younger generation when he graduated from secondary school in 1981.
He trained ensembles in Josipovac , Ernestinovo , Cepin and Osijek ( Folk Ensemble Biseri Slavonije and the Croatian Folk Ensemble Ž eljeznicar ) .
Since December 1985 , he has been the art director and choreographer of the Workers ' Folk Ensemble PIK Đ akovo , which later changed its name to The Folk Ensemble TENA , Folklore group Slavonske Kraljice .
Besides working as an instructor who teachers dances , songs , and singing , shapes and practices the program , he also choreographs .
He was trained for the job of a choreographer at a number of seminars .
As early as the summer of 1983 , he started attending the folklore school organized by the Cultural and educational assembly of Croatia as seminars in the summers and winters . he has taken all obligatory courses and passed all exams related to the theoretical knowledge about folklore and dance zones in Croatia .
The main aim of the school was to send the candidates to villages to collect folklore material themselves at the very source .
From 1986 to the beginning of the war in 1991 , he has intensively collected folklore material .
In this period he composed many Slavonian choreographies : Kumova grana , Ajmo ž ito pokupiti pa cmo kolo zaigrati , Kiti bunar Jelo , Filipovcice , Savom vodom od Davora do Š amca , Š etale se tri divojke , Slavonske kraljice and choreographies from Baranja : Plesovi iz Baranje , Baranjsko Petrovo Selo veljace iljadu osamsto i neke , Poklade su and Baranjski svatovski adet .
In addition to choreographies from Slavonia and Baranja , he also made choreographies from other regions of Croatia : Zelen Juraj doš al je ( from Pokuplje ) , Krcki kanti i tonci , Plesovi iz Medimurja , Posavcica od glave do pete " and Stari splitski ples and Trogirska cetvorka , A oj Liko ravnija od Srema , Lepo naš e zeleno Primorje , Na Ivanje ne radim oranje .
As a choreographer and expert on Slavonian folklore he was invited to give his choreographies to other folklore ensembles : Strawberry Hill CFA , Kansas City , USA ; St. Johns Tamburitzans , Kansas City , SAD ; Miroslav Krle ž a Fellbach , Njemacka , THE Folk Ensemble Zagreb , Zagreb ; The Folk Ensemble Š okadija Stari Mikanovci Croatian National Theatre Ivan pl .
Zajc , Rijeka ; Folklore ensemble Biseri Slavonije , The Folk Ensemble Ž eljeznicar . The largest number of his choreographies are performed by his parent ensemble Tena .
Considering his experience working with folk ensembles and his research in the field , especially in Slavonia and Baranja , he was invited to lecture on Slavonian folklore at seminars of Croatian folklore in Zagreb in 1994 , and since 1996 he has been a regular lecturer at the regional seminar of Slavonia , Baranja and Sirmium .
As an instructor of quality ensembles and a choreographer , he became a member of the Board of Managers of the society of folklore instructors and choreographers of Croatia .
The Kvarner area abounds in diverse approaches to visual arts that are characterised by a variety of motifs , sensibilities and historical sources .
Changes throughout history , various cultural influences , and finally the 20th century as a bridge between the old and the new eras , have created a varied picture interwoven with scenes from folk and urban creations in the form of both inherited and newly created cultural diversity .
In this survey , we are interested in locations and traces of visual arts that comprise painting and sculpture .
We will follow the traces of visual artists in our region , mainly in religious buildings and public places , and give some insight into the existing collections of museums and galleries .
This will be a walk through the visual panorama of this region characterised by its green-blue landscape , with the remark that we will limit our selection only to the most important works and personalities that are easily accessible to visitors .
Originating from a source of various influences , the culture of this region has been maintained within the bounds of rather modest resources . Today expert and material efforts are being made to appropriately validate the entire artistic production created up to the end of the 20th century , and to open to the public the permanent exhibitions within the existing large museums as soon as possible .
Our task is also to re-establish the reputation of some extraordinary historic personalities that were born here , like Julije Klovi ć , a miniaturist of worldwide renown from the Vinodol region .
Juraj Julije Klovi ć , born in 1498 in the village of Gri ž ane near Vinodol and died in 1578 in Rome , was one of Europe’ s greatest 16th century miniaturists in the period of mannerism .
With elongated figured , landscapes of mysterious ambience , pale greenish , bluish and violet tones and luxuriant ornamentation , he depicted the pages of the masterpiece Officium Virginis which contains 28 of his miniatures showing scenes from the Old and New Testaments and two miniatures with liturgical themes .
The history of sacred arts in the Kvarner area also encompasses a series of valuable paintings that we inherited over the past centuries as works of masters from abroad , as imported works of arts , or as the creations of rather few indigenous artists .
This panoramic survey will mainly concentrate on the collections available to visitors , which means that many valuable painters from our region have been left out because there are no available permanent collections of their work .
Among the artists from the beginning of the 20th century , one should not forget Josip Moretti Zajc - Peppo ( Bakar 1882 – Rijeka 1933 ) , a painter dedicated to light and influenced by Venetian painting , who created some of the finest Kvarner landscapes , marinas and panoramas , as well as the stage curtain in the Croatian Reading Room ( Hrvatska č itaonica ) in Trsat .
The artists from the Kvarner region who worked in the productive period in the second half of the 20th century and strongly influenced the visual arts of the region were Romolo Venucci ( Rijeka , 1903 – 1976 ) , Jakov Smokvina ( Rijeka , 1903 – Volosko , 1987 ) , Vladimir Udatny ( Voć in , 1920 – Rijeka , 1972 ) , Antun Haller ( Split , 1923 ) , Ivo Kalina ( Zagreb , 1924 – Rijeka , 1995 ) , Vojo Radoič ić ( Pož ega , 1930 ) , Slavko Grč ko ( Rijeka , 1934 ) , Josip Dimini ć ( Sveti Lovre č , 1937 ) , Mauro Stipanov ( Rijeka , 1952 ) and many others who will be mentioned later in this text .
Sculptor Ljubo de Karina from Brseč and painter Mate Solis from Cres are the best examples of visual artists who worked in their places of origin and made a great contribution to the region in which they lived by creating individually shaped houses – museums and receiving recognition by many experts .
A special place among artists who dedicated their most valuable work to depicting motifs from the regional landscape belongs to Oton Gliha ( academic painter , born in Č rnomelj/ Slovenia , 1914 – died in Zagreb , 1999 ) and Mila Kumbatović ( academic painter , born in Omi š alj , 1915 – died in Zagreb , 2004 ) .
In their artistic work and private life they remained faithful to Omiš alj on the island of Krk .
Mila Kumbatovi ć found motifs for her paintings in the authentic areas of the island of Krk , from early 1950s landscapes up to later abstractions . Gliha’ s famous paintings of gromač e were directly inspired by Krk ’ s dry-stone walls .
A wall in the building of Rijeka Airport near Omiš alj is the location for a stone mosaic by Oton Gliha from the 1970s .
As for revitalising the landscape , a sculptors’ workshop called Goranska kiparska radionica in Lokve , in the region of Gorski kotar , is known for placing sculptures in the countryside . This workshop has been active since 1979 when it was registered as a citizens association whose primary activity is to organise summer sculptors ’ symposiums .
Some of the most renowned Croatian and international sculptors have taken part in these symposiums .
Many of the sculptures created in the course of the last years within the workshop have been left in the countryside to become a part of natural surroundings , thus making a kind of artistic nature park .
The founder and leader of the workshop for many years was the sculptor Nikola Lepinski ( 1934 – 1999 ) .
The works of artists from Kvarner , as well as other artists from Croatia and abroad , can be seen in professionally managed galleries such as the Kortil gallery in Suš ak , the Filodrammatica , the Julije Klovi ć gallery , the State Archive exhibition area , the O. K. gallery ( Jan Palach Multimedia Cultural Centre for the Young ) , the Mali salon gallery and the Arh gallery ( all in Rijeka ) , then the Juraj Š porer arts pavilion in Opatija , the Turnac gallery in Novi Vinodolski , the Crikvenica Exhibition Gallery , the Knež ev dvor and Paradiso galleries in Rab , the Decumanus gallery in Krk , the Lapidarij in Omi š alj and the Toš in Punat .
By drawing concise sketches of the following panoramic survey , we wanted to call the reader ’ s attention to the available heritage of sacred painting in the Kvarner area , to the museums and collections of arts , as well as to monuments in public areas that remind of significant personalities – whether because they were erected in their honour , or because they were created by them .
Collections of sacred arts are particularly important places where Kvarner ’ s sacred art heritage is kept .
The arts gallery in the sanctuary of Our Lady of Trsat features a reliquary of Barbara Frankopan from the 15th century , a silver statue of Our Lady from the 16th century ( a gift of ban Tomo Bakač -Erdödy ) , a silver crown for the votive statue ( 1615 ) , a gift of the faithful , and other items of interest . The collection from the Cathedral of St. Vitus features Jesuitical mass vestments , chasubles and dalmatics , a pluviale from the period between the 17th century and the second half of the 18th century , liturgical items and sculptures in silver and gilding like statues , chalices , monstrances and reliquaries .
The oldest item in the collection is a gilded copper brass processional cross , made in the 15th century , before the Jesuits .
The Museum of Sacred Arts in Osor on the island of Cres is located in the former bishop’ s court , and the City Museum ( the former Town Hall from the 15th century ) looks after a valuable archaeological collection .
In Dobrinj on the island of Krk there is a museum of sacred artefacts and ethnography from 1996 with a collection of silverware , woodenware , paintings and books .
The Mozaico collection of sacred artefacts is exhibited in the church of St. Quirinus ( crkva sv . Kvirina ) in Krk .
The monastery on the small island of Koš ljun has been carefully protecting valuable heritage for almost half a millennium .
In the Franciscan church of the Annunciation ( 1523 ) , the main altar features a polyptych by Girolamo da Santacroce from 1535 , and the lateral altar a depiction of St. Francis by an unknown Venetian artist from the 16th century . The triumphal arch has a large composition , The Last Judgment by E. Ughetto from 1653.
The monastery’ s museum also displays a collection of artistic craftsmanship as well as icons and paintings , among them the works by Krk’ s master Fran Juri ć ( Krk , 1693 – 1755 ) , a priest and self-taught painter .
His most valuable work is Virgin and Saints ( 1724 ) on the main altar of the parish church in Baš ka .
The Franciscan monastery on Koš ljun displays his signed painting Blessed Virgin Mary and Child and St. John the Baptist(1725 ) and a series of paintings from 1728 in the church choir .
In 1731 he depicted the ceiling in the chapel of St. Anthony in Vrbnik .
Franjo and his brother Ante had the only painter’ s workshop registered so far on the island of Krk .
Sacred painting of the 17th century in Rijeka was in its heyday in the third decade of the century when the whole region experienced a general progress after the foundation of the Jesuit Gymnasium in Rijeka .
This period was marked by the work of three exceptional artists on Kvarner .
The first of them is Ivan Franjo Gladić ( Rijeka , ca . 1605 – ca . 1680 ) , whose pala ( a kind of altar frontal , antependium ) Handing the keys to St. Peter from 1640 is located in the church of Our Lady of the Assumption .
The second important painter is Ivan Krstitelj Cosmini ( Kozmina ) from Rijeka whose pala The Three Magi ( 1687 ) is located in the chapel of the Immaculate Conception in the Augustine monastery in Rijeka .
The third and most significant author is father Serafin Schön ( Menzingen/ Switzerland , ( ? ) – Trsat , 1642 ) who came to Trsat monastery in 1630 where he left seven oil paintings and one wall painting .
His oldest works are the three altar palas from 1631 in Trsat’ s church – St. Michael , St. Nicholas with intercessors and St. Catherine with martyrs .
He is also claimed to have made the compositions from Mary’ s life in the new cloister’ s lunettes .
The painting Our Lady of Loretto from 1632 is kept in the Franciscan monastery on Trsat that also hosts the large composition Mystical Supper ( 1640 ) , Schön ’ s most important work .
Valentin Metzinger ( St. Avold / France , 1699 – Ljubljana 1759 ) was an educated 18th century artist who worked in the Kvarner area .
Six of his paintings depicting St. Francis of Assisi , St. Anthony of Padua , St. Ladislav the King , St. Bonaventura , St. Paš kval and St. John of Capistrano are displayed in a corridor of the Franciscan monastery on Trsat ; the church of Our Lady of the Assumption in Rijeka contains his altar palas depicting St. Anthony the Abbot and St. Philip Neri .
One of his most valuable works from 1757 is a representative altarpiece ( pala ) depicting St. Margaret , Helena and Agnes on the lateral altar in the church of St. Margaret ( built in 1668 ) in Bakar . ( On the location of the medieval church a new parish church was built in 1830 which includes the altar painting by Girolamo da Santacroce The Holy Trinity from the 16th century ) .
The most valuable work by Valentin Metzinger in Gorski kotar is the altarpiece ( pala ) in the baroque church of St. Anthony of Padua in Č abar .
Unknown artists used to work across the wider area of Opatija .
In Kastav they created the painting of All Saints / Mary’ s Coronation in the parish church of St. Helene ( crkva Sv . Jelene ) and the painting of Madonna with St. George and St. Stephen in the church of St. Sebastian .
The Lovran parish church of St. George ( crkva sv . Jurja ) displays a painting of St. Anthony of Padua , and the parish church of St. Andrew ( crkva sv . Andrije ) in Mošć enice features a painting of St. Andrew and St. Cezarej .
The works by unknown artists from the 17th century in Bakar include the paintings of Christ on the Cross in the parish church of St. Andrew ( crkva sv . Andrije ) , Madonna of sadness in the church of St. Margaret , St. Aurelius in the parish church of St. George ( crkva sv . Jurja ) and the Lamentation of Christ in the parish church of St. Nicholas ( crkva sv . Nikole ) .
The painting Veronica ’ s scarf by an unknown artist from that period is located in the parish office in Kraljevica .
The Churches in Veli Lo š inj mostly feature works of art imported by Lo š inj’ s naval captains who bought them at auctions of Venetian churches .
The church of St. Anthony ( crkva sv . Antuna ) from the 15th century displays the paintings Virgin and Child with Saints by Bartolomeo Vivarini ( 1440– 1499 ) , St. Francis by Bernard Strozzi ( 1581 − 1644 ) , St. John the Baptist by Lattanzio Querena ( 1768 – 1853 ) , Adoration of the Kings by Francesco Hayez ( 1791− 1882 ) , St. Gregory by Francesco del Cossa ( 1435 − 1477 ) and Souls in the Purgatory by F. Potenza .
The church of Our Lady of the Assumption ( crkva Marijina uza š ašć a ) from 1510 houses the paintings of St. Hildebrand and St. Francis of Assisi by Francesco Fontebass ( 1709 – 1769 ) , as well as several anonymous works from the period between the 16th and 18th centuries .
Loš inj’ s maritime character is also reflected in votive paintings by sailors from the 18th century in the church of St. Nicholas ( crkva sv . Nikole ) in Veli Loš inj and those from the 19th century in the church of Our Lady of the Annunciation ( crkva Marijina Navje š tenja ) in Č ikat in Mali Loš inj .
Sacred painting on the island of Rab includes many valuable pieces of art .
Today ’ s parish church ( until 1828 the Cathedral of St. Mary the Great - katedrala sv . Marije Velike ) hosts an altarpiece ( pala ) depicting Virgin and Child from the 14th century , supposedly by Guariento d ’ Arpo from Paolo Veneziano ’ s circle .
This church also displays a work of late Venetian baroque ( between 1746 and 1756 ) , The Assumption .
The church of St. Anthony the Abbot ( crkva sv . Antuna Opata ) includes an altarpiece ( pala ) depicting St. Joachim and Anthony , a work by Mateo Ponzoni from the 17th century .
Beside the Benedictine monastery of St. Andrew is a monastery church built in the mid-11th century .
In the northern apse of the church is a renaissance crucifix with a depiction of Lamentation .
The main altar in the church of St. Andrew contains an altarpiece ( pala ) by the Venetian painter A. Novelli from 1765.
There is also the valuable Cretan-Byzantine painting of the Virgin Mary with Christ in her arms from the 16th century , whose silver-golden icon frame was made by a Venetian goldsmith in the 18th century .
Inside the monastery is a Cretan-Venetian painting Lamentation of Christ from the 16th century .
The church of St. Justine from 1574 is home to an altarpiece ( pala ) with a depiction of St. Justine and characters from the Battle of Lepanto from the 17th century by a Flemish painter , Baldasare d’ Ana .
The altarpiece in the same church with the depiction of Death of St. Joseph is a work by the Venetian painters ’ workshop from the turn of the 16th and 17th centuries .
A polyptych from the ruins of the church of St. John the Evangelist , with the central composition of the Crucifixion and figures of the saints ( from the 14th century ) , is credited to the best painter of the Venetian trecento , Paolo Veneziano .
Virgin with Christ in her arms and the angels is a work by a Spanish painter Zuano Buschet from the 16th century .
The lower part of the altarpiece in the church of the Holy Cross ( crkva sv . Kri ž a ) includes a depiction of Virgin with Christ in her arms and the angels .
The painting was credited to several master painters of the Venetian settecento , most recently to Giovani Scajara .
The church of St. Anthony of Padua hosts an altarpiece ( pala ) with the depiction of Virgin with Christ in her arms and the angels by a Venetian baroque painter from the 17th century .
The central building of the Franciscan monastery of St. Euphemia , the church of St. Bernardine houses a late Gothic sanctuary and a depicted baroque ceiling of the naos .
The polyptych in the sanctuary with a depiction of the Virgin with Christ in her arms and the angels is a work by Venetian painters , the brothers Antonio and Bartolomeo Vivarini ( from 1458 ) . Its golden frame was made by the wood-carver Franciscus .
Sacred painting on the island of Krk has left us many works of art .
Paintings in the cathedral in the town of Krk include : the polyptych St. Lucy by Paolo Veneziano ( after 1333 ) from the Benedictine abbey in Jurandvor near Baš ka , in the diocese as a part of the collection of works by Italian masters from the 15th and the 16th centuries ; The Entombment by Giovanni Antonio Pordenone ( Pordenone , 1483 – Ferrara , 1539 ) ; four religious paintings : Manna from Heaven , Abraham ’ s Sacrifice , Multiplication of Bread and The Last Supper by Christophor Tasca ( Bergamo , 1667 – Venice , 1737 ) from 1706 ; three paintings of the Annunciation St. Francis of Paola , St. Anthony the Abbot and St. John of Nepomuk with the Holy Bishop by Nicola Grassi ( 1682 – 1748 ) from the period between 1712 and 1721 ; and finally the large painting of Our Lady of Carmel by Francesco Zugna ( probably from the same period ) .
The altar painting of Madonna with saints by Bernardino Licinio ( Bergamo , around 1489 – after 1561 ) is located in the single-aisled Franciscan church from the 12th century ( not far from the church of Our Lady of Health - crkva Gospe od Zdravlja ) .
The three-aisled parish church of Holy Trinity ( crkva Sv . Trojstva ) in Baš ka ( from 1722 ) displays altar paintings of Our Lady with saints from the end of the 15th century by Marco Marziala ( 1492 – 1507 ) and The Last Supper by Jacopo Palma the Younger ( 1544 – 1628 ) .
The Third Order Franciscan monastery from the 15th century near the church from the 16th century is located in Glavotok on the west coast of the island of Krk .
The main altar of the church features the paintings Blessed Virgin Mary and Child , St. Francis and St. Jerome , presumably by Matteo da Verona ( 1576 – 1618 ) .
The monastery houses paintings and liturgical items from the 17th and 18th centuries , as well as several Glagolitic inscriptions .
The main altar of the parish church of the Holy Trinity ( crkva sv . Trojstva ) from 1777 ( reconstructed in 1934 ) includes carvings and sculptures from the 18th century and the altarpiece ( pala ) St. john preaching in the desert by Domeniko Fedeli called Maggiotto ( 1713 – 1793 ) .
The chapel of the church of St. Mary in Vrbnik displays the polyptych of St. Ana , a work by a local painter from the 15th century , and the main altar features the painting The Last Supper by Marino Cvitkovi ć from Kotor ( 1599 ) .
The Dinko Vitezić library in Vrbnik contains a triptych of the Blessed Virgin Mary with Saints from the 16th century .
A Third Order Franciscan monastery was formed in Dubaš nica next to the small church of St. Mary Magdalene near the village of Porat around 1480.
The church features a polyptych by Girolamo and Francesco de Santacroce ( before 1556 ) , and the monastery includes a cultural history museum , library and archive with Glagolitic manuscripts .
The church of St. Maria in Gorica includes paintings by Celestin Medovi ć , ( academic Franciscan painter , born in Kuna on the peninsula of Pelje š ac in 1857 , died in Sarajevo in 1920 ) , a renowned artist from the first generation of Croatian modernism .
Public monuments in Rijeka from the 16th until the 19th century include a series of valuable works that chronologically begin in 1508 with a stendarac , an old town flagpole that is today located in front the former Municipium palace .
A famous monument to road building , the Pyramid , is a milestone from the beginning of the 19th century erected on its present location of the part of the town of the same name when the road that connects Rijeka to the cove of Martinšć ica was constructed in 1833. Of the monumental Emperor Franz Joseph fountain from 1857 , today only the figure of the Emperor remains . it is kept in the Rijeka State Archive .
Adamić evi svjedoci ( Adamić’ s witnesses ) , a work by the stone-carver from Rijeka Giuseppe Capovilla , is now exhibited in the lapidarium of the History and Maritime Museum in Rijeka .
Simone Adamich , a tobacco wholesaler from Rijeka , had them made as a warning against perjury at the end of the 18th century .
The Basilisk in Trsat Castle , also known as the Trast Dragon , is a zoomorphic mythological creature and a heraldic adornment on the coat of arms of the Nugent family from the end of the 19th century .
Two such sculptures were made by the Viennese sculptor Anton Dominik von Fernkorn ( 1813 – 1878 ) .
Public monuments in Rijeka from the second half of the 20th century include many valuable works of art .
A monument to health , a fountain with the sculpture of Hygia by the sculptor Zvonko Car has been located in the park of the Rijeka hospital since 1956.
The stone bust of Frano Supilo in front of the building of the local newspaper Novi list is a work by Julije Csikos Sessija ( Zagreb , 1898 – 1978 ) .
The fountain in Kobler square from the 1970s was set up on the 150th anniversary of the paper factory ; its creator was the architect from Rijeka Igor Emili ( Suš ak , 1927 – Rijeka , 1987 ) .
The academic sculptor from Rijeka Vinko Matkovi ć ( Su š ak , 1911 – Rijeka , 1973 ) created the grand Monument to the Liberation in the part of the town called Delta ( 1955 ) , whose pedestal contains reliefs by the sculptor Raoul Goldoni ( Split , 1919 – Zagreb , 1983 ) .
Ljubo de Karina is the creator of the monument to the Fallen People from Trsat in World War II ( 1977 ) , and the Altar - Cross in Trsat cemetery in memory of the fallen soldiers of the Croatian Homeland War ( 1998 ) .
Works by the sculptor Belizar Bahorić ( Suš ač ka Draga near Rijeka , 1920 – Zagreb , 2002 ) are exhibited in several locations : a bust of the composer and musician Ivan pl .
Zajc was placed in the park in front of Rijeka Theatre in the 1980s ; the sculpture of the milkmaid Mlikarica dates from the 1990s ; the Monument to the Sportsman is located at the sports ground of the Orijent football club , and the sculpture Val ( The Wave ) on the square in front of the Town Library ( 2004 ) .
The monument to Rijeka’ s poet and writer Janko Polić Kamov ( Suš ak , 1890 – Barcelona , 1910 ) is a work of the academic sculptor Zvonimir Kamenar from 2000 and is located along the fence of the old Suš ak bridge near the Hotel Kontinental .
Kamenar’ s works also include the sculpture in memory of the Fallen soldiers of Kostrena in World War II ( 1976 ) and the stone monument to the victims of the Homeland War in Croatia at the 3. maj shipyard in Rijeka .
At the eastern entrance to the town ( the so-called Plumbum ) is a lantern – a monument to friendship – a gift from the town of Kawasaki to Rijeka in 1986.
Jelač ić square contains Kawasaki , a fountain by the architect Abel Š losar ( Opatija , 1939 – Volosko , 2005 ) and Maš a Uravi ć from the 1980s , with a sculpture that was donated by the town of Kawasaki .
The sculpture Majč instvo ( Motherhood , from 1979 ) by the academic sculptress Jasna Bogdanovi ć from 1979 is located at the entrance to the Institute for Public Health ( Zavod za javno zdravstvo ) .
The monument to Pope John Paul II called The Trsat Pilgrim ( Trsatski hodoč asnik ) from 2005 by Ante Jurkić , an academic sculptor from Zagreb , is located in Mary ’ s gardens ( Marijin perivoj ) of Trsat church .
Public monuments on the Opatija Riviera are often typified by the sculpture Girl with the Seagull , one of the visual symbols of Opatija , created in 1956 by Zvonko Car .
It is located on the same rock above the sea near the former cemetery on which previously stood the sculpture Madonna del Mare by Hans Rathausky from Graz , who was also creator of the Helios and Selene fountain from 1889 in the park between the church of St. James ( crkva sv . Jakova ) and the Hotel Imperial .
A gilded replica of the Madonna now stands in front of the church of St. James .
A series of sculptures by Tatjana Kostanjevi ć ( born in 1963 in Rijeka ) points to some of Opatija ’ s more famous visitors , like the ballet dancer Isadora Duncan ( 2002 ) and the writer A. P. Chekhov ( 2003 ) in Angiolina Park , and the composer Gustav Mahler ( 2004 ) in front of the Villa Jeanette .
A relief portrait of Dr. Č edomil Plavš ić ( 1902 – 1987 , founder and for many years director of the Thalassotherapia , is exhibited in the Thalassotherapia building ( 2005 ) .
The creator of the vertical wooden sculpture from the 1990s , Without Title , located in front of Opatija Town Hall , is Mirko Zrinšć ak ( born 1953 in Volosko ) .
He was the first artist from Liburnia to represent Croatia at the Biennale in Venice , in 1995.
The façade of the Town Hall ( 2002 ) features a bronze bust of the Croatian patriot and politician Dr. Andrija Š tanger ( Volosko , 1853 – 1934 ) who was head of the Volosko – Opatija Municipality from 1895 until 1918.
The bust was created by the sculptor Ivan Rendi ć ( Imotski , 1849 – Split , 1932 ) , and the pedestal was made by Ljubo de Karina .
In front of the Zora Cultural Society ( Kulturni dom Zora ) in Opatija is the sculpture Nordkapp by Sini š a Majkus ( born in Rijeka in 1962 ) .
His work Linné from 1998 is exhibited in Matulji .
Public monuments in the Vinodol region include various works by Zvonko Car in Crikvenica .
The park of the Hotel Kaš tel features a monument to the writer Vladimir Nazor by Zdenko Kolacio ( architect and town planner , Su š ak , 1914 – Zagreb , 1987 ) and the stone sculpture of St. John the Nepomuk from 1735 , restored in 1980 by the sculptor Zvonimir Kamenar .
Monuments to Julije Klovi ć , a great artist from our region , are exhibited in Drivenik and Gri ž ane .
The monument in Drivenik is a work of Zvonko Car and is located in front of the old primary school , while the monument in Griž ane is a medallion with the figure of the painter , a work by Ivan Belobrajić ( Tribalj , 1933 ) .
The same village hosts a monument to fallen soldiers by Vinko Matkovi ć and the sculpture Woman with a Wooden Basket by Zvonko Car . The bust of Mihovil Kombol in Bribir is a work by Drago Č arapina .
