Prime Minister Narendra Modi met Her Majesty Queen Maxima of the Kingdom of the Netherlands today.
Queen Maxima is visiting India in her capacity as UN Secretary-General’s Special Advocate for Inclusive Finance for Development.
Prime Minister Modi and Queen Maxima discussed the various initiatives taken in the last few years by the Government of India for enhancing financial inclusion in India, such as Jan Dhan Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana, Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana, and Atal Pension Yojana.
Queen Maxima appreciated the progress achieved by these initiatives.
The two leaders also discussed global development finance.
On the occasion of Ambedkar Jayanti today, Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated a Health and Wellness Centre, to mark the launch of the Union Government’s ambitious Health Assurance Programme – Ayushman Bharat.
The Centre was inaugurated at Jangla Development Hub, in the aspirational district of Bijapur in Chhattisgarh.
In the course of over one hour, the Prime Minister interacted with a number of people, and was briefed on several development initiatives at the development hub.
At the inauguration of the Health and Wellness Centre, he interacted with ASHA workers.
He visited a model Anganwadi Centre, and interacted with Anganwadi workers and beneficiary children of Poshan Abhiyan.
Via video conference, the Prime Minister dedicated to the nation, the Bhanupratappur-Gudum Railway Line.
He flagged off a train between Dalli Rajhara and Bhanupratappur.
He also inaugurated a dialysis centre at Bijapur Hospital.
The Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has greeted the people of Nagaland on their Statehood Day.
“Statehood Day greetings to the people of Nagaland.
PM said, “On Army Day, I convey greetings to the soldiers, veterans and their families.
Every citizen of India has unwavering trust and pride in our Army, which protects the nation and is also at the forefront of humanitarian efforts during times of natural disasters and other accidents.
Our Army always puts the nation first.
I salute all those great individuals who sacrificed their lives while serving the nation.
The MoU aims for exchange of expertise and networking of information.
Following is the text of the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi’s departure statement prior to his visit to Russia.
“Greetings to the friendly people of Russia.
I look forward to my visit to Sochi tomorrow and my meeting with President Putin.
It is always a pleasure to meet him.
The Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi, today addressed the Indian community in Yangon, Myanmar.
“You represent thousands of years of the shared culture and civilisation, geography and history, aspiration and achievements of the great sons and daughters of India and Myanmar,” the Prime Minister said, addressing the gathering.
The Prime Minister elaborated on the rich spiritual traditions of Myanmar.
“When I meet you, I also feel that communication of our people living in foreign countries with government authorities in India is not a one way traffic any more,” the Prime Minister said.
“We are not merely reforming our country, we are transforming it,” the Prime Minister asserted, adding that an India free from poverty, terrorism, corruption, communalism, and casteism is being created.
The Prime Minister said that the Union Government in India is focusing on infrastructure.
He said that good infrastructure is no longer about roads and railways alone – it includes several other aspects that bring about a qualitative change in society.
He said that the Government has not shied away from taking decisions that are tough.
The Prime Minister said GST is ushering in a new culture across the nation.
He said that the people of India have the confidence that India can be transformed and we can break free from some of the evils that entered our system.
The Prime Minister said that people-to-people ties are the strength of India-Myanmar relations.
The Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi has approved the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between India and Russia on Bilateral Cooperation in the Road Transport and Road Industry.
The MoU will be signed during the upcoming visit of Russian President to India.
In order to develop and establish formal platform for cooperation in the Transport and Highways sector, a Memorandum of Understanding in the field of Road Transport and Road Industry has been jointly negotiated and finalized by both countries.
Both the countries will benefit by mutual cooperation in the field of Road Transport and Road Industry.
India is implementing at a rapid pace its highway infrastructure augmentation plans.
To make full use of the road infrastructure it is necessary to embrace technology to enhance transport productivity and safety.
Following is the text of the Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi’s departure statement prior to attending the G-20 Summit.
“I will be visiting Buenos Aires from 29 November -01 December 2018 to attend the 13th G-20 Summit hosted by Argentina.
The G-20 seeks to promote multi-faceted cooperation among the twenty largest economies of the world.
Through the ten years of its existence, G-20 has strived to promote stable and sustainable global growth.
This objective is of particular significance for developing countries and emerging economies such as India, which is today the fastest growing large economy in the world.
India’s contribution to global economic growth and prosperity underlines our commitment to “Building Consensus for Fair and Sustainable Development”, which is the theme of the Summit.
Emerging economies, which played a major role in revitalizing the growth in the global economy pursuant to the financial crisis are today facing unprecedented economic and technological challenges.
I will highlight the need for reformed multilateralism which reflects the contemporary realities and can effectively strengthen collective action for global good.
There is also a serious need to strengthen international cooperation and enhance coordinated action against fugitive economic offenders and financing of terrorism.
