USisi Virginia Khampepe (owazalwa mhla ka 8 kuMasingana - Januwari 1957 ) uyijaji laseNingizimu Afrika okwamanje elisebenza eNkantolo yoMthethosisekelo yaseNingizimu Afrika. 
Kusukela ngo-1999 ube yiPhini likaMqondisi Kazwelonke Wophiko Lwezokushushisa Likahulumeni ophikweni Lwezokushushisa Likazwelonke. 
Ngo-2000 uKhampepe waqokwa njengejaji leTransvaal Provincial Division le-High Court, [1] (manje eyaziwa ngokuthi iGauteng Division). 
Amareferensi Justice Sisi Khampepe Justice of the Constitutional Court of South Africa Manje Isikhathi: 2009 Waqokwa yi Judicial Service Commission Waqokwa ngu Mongameli Jacob Zuma Ijaji leNkantolo yezemisebenzi iLabour Appeal Court Isikhathi:2007–2009 Wakhethwa yi Judicial Service Commission Waqokwa ngu Mongameli Thabo Mbeki njengeJaji le-North Gauteng High Court Isikhathi:2000–2009 Wakhethwa yi Judicial Service Commission Waqokwa ngu Mongameli Thabo Mbeki Ukwazisa Ubezalwa (1957-01-08) 8 ngoMasingane 1957 (Iminyaka 65)Soweto, Transvaal Province, South Africa Alma mater University of Zululand Harvard Law School 
↑ 
Taxi statistics People using Taxi service each day 14 million Officially registered minibus taxis 200,000 Average taxis per owner 7 Avg monthly kilometres driven by a taxi 8,000 Avg number of passengers transported monthly per vehicle 3,161 Avg time spent daily in a taxi by a passenger 65 min Avg number of trips per passenger per day 2.3 Data as of 2006[1] 
The term taxi war is usually used to refer to the turf wars fought between taxi associations and individual minibus taxi drivers in South Africa from the late 1980s onwards.[2] These taxi wars are still raging to the present day.[3] 
Music, race and gender in the taxi industry in Durban (PDF) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Dugard, Jackie (May 2001), "From Low Intensity War to Mafia War: Taxi violence in South Africa (1987–2000)", Violence and Transition Series 4 ↑ "Shooting at Benoni taxi rank claims life", Business Day, 3 July 1999, archived from the original on 29 September 2007 1 2 The South African Taxi Industry ↑ Truth and Reconciliation Commission Report (PDF) 3, 1998, archived from the original (PDF) on 5 October 2006 ↑ "AFTER three years of bickering and false starts, the taxi industry is on the brink of forming an all-inclusive national council. 
Once it is formed, government is ready to give the body statutory self-regulating powers", Business Day, 15 June 1998, archived from the original on 29 September 2007 1 2 Organising in the taxi industry: The South African experience (PDF), 2003, archived from the original (PDF) on 24 September 2006 ↑ http://www.transport.gov.za/library/legislation/transport%20deregulation%20act.txt ↑ An Overview of the National Land Transport Transition (Act 22 of 2000) ↑ Taxi Recapitalisation Project ↑ Taxi recapitalisation gets into gear – SouthAfrica.info ↑ Taxi recapitalisation programme, South Africa 
Cetshwayo kaMpande (/kɛtʃˈwaɪ.oʊ/; Zulu pronunciation: [kǀétʃwajo kámpande]; c. 
1826 – 8 February 1884) was the King of the Zulu Kingdom from 1872 to 1879 and its leader during the Anglo-Zulu War of 1879. 
His name has been transliterated as Cetawayo, Cetewayo, Cetywajo and Ketchwayo. 
He famously led the Zulu nation to victory against the British in the Battle of Isandlwana. 
Early life 
Cetshwayo was a son of Zulu king Mpande[1] and Queen Ngqumbazi, half-nephew of Zulu king Shaka and grandson of Senzangakhona kaJama. 
Cetshwayo kaMpande 
Adult education is a practice in which adults engage in systematic and sustained self–educating activities in order to gain new forms of knowledge, skills, attitudes, or values.[1] It can mean any form of learning adults engage in beyond traditional schooling, encompassing basic literacy to personal fulfillment as a lifelong learner.[2] In particular, adult education reflects a specific philosophy about learning and teaching based on the assumption that adults can and want to learn, that they are able and willing to take responsibility for that learning, and that the learning itself should respond to their needs.[3] Driven by what one needs or wants to learn, the available opportunities, and the manner in which one learns, adult learning is affected by demographics, globalization and technology.[4] The learning happens in many ways and in many contexts just as all adults' lives differ.[5] Adult learning can be in any of the three contexts, i.e. 
Formal – Structured learning that typically takes place in an education or training institution, usually with a set curriculum and carries credentials; Non-formal – Learning that is organized by educational institutions but non credential. 
Non-formal learning opportunities may be provided in the workplace and through the activities of civil society organizations and groups; Informal education – Learning that goes on all the time, resulting from daily life activities related to work, family, community or leisure (e.g. community baking class).[6][7] 
Characteristics 
Defined as the science and art of helping adults learn,[8][9] the practice of adult education is referred to as andragogy, to distinguish it from the traditional school-based education for children pedagogy. 
Unlike children, adults are seen as: 
More self-directed, rather than relying on others for help Mature and therefore experienced with the experience providing a rich source for learning An Adult's readiness to learn is linked to what one needs to know Adult orientation to learn is problem centred rather than subject centered Adult motivation to learn is internal.[9] 
Educating adults differs from educating children in several ways given that adults have accumulated knowledge and work experience which can add to the learning experience.[10] Another difference is that most adult education is voluntary, therefore, the participants are generally self-motivated, unless required to participate, by an employer, for example. 
Adults frequently apply their knowledge in a practical fashion to learn effectively. 
They must have a reasonable expectation that the knowledge they gain will help them further their goals. 
For example, during the 1990s, many adults, including mostly office workers, enrolled in computer training courses. 
These courses would teach basic use of the operating system or specific application software. 
Because the abstractions governing the user's interactions with a PC were so new, many people who had been working white-collar jobs for ten years or more eventually took such training courses, either at their own whim (to gain computer skills and thus earn higher pay) or at the behest of their managers. 
In the United States and many areas in Canada, a more general example is when adults who dropped out of high school return to school to complete general education requirements. 
Most upwardly mobile positions require at the very least a high school diploma or equivalent. 
A working adult is unlikely to have the freedom to simply quit his or her job and go "back to school" full-time. Public school systems and community colleges usually offer evening or weekend classes for this reason. 
In Europe this is often referred to as "second-chance", and many schools offer tailor-made courses and learning programs for these returning learners. 
Furthermore, adults with poor reading skills can obtain help from volunteer literacy programs. 
These national organizations provide training, tutor certification, and accreditation for local volunteer programs. 
States often have organizations which provide field services for volunteer literacy programs. 
Purposes of adult education may vary, the general purposes of which are summarized as: 
Vocational Social Recreational Self-development[11] 
One of its goals may be to help adult learners satisfy their personal needs and achieve their professional goals.[12] Therefore, its ultimate goal might be to achieve human fulfillment. 
The goal might also be to achieve an institution's needs. 
For example, this might include improving its operational effectiveness and productivity. 
A larger scale goal of adult education may be the growth of society by enabling its citizens to keep up with societal change and maintain good social order.[1] 
The purpose of adult education in the form of college or university is distinct. 
In these institutions, the aim is typically related to personal growth and development as well as occupation and career preparedness. 
Another goal might be to not only sustain the democratic society, but to even challenge and improve its social structure.[1] 
Another fast-growing sector of adult education is English for Speakers of Other Languages (ESOL), also referred to as English as a Second Language (ESL) or English Language Learners (ELL).[13] These courses are key in assisting immigrants with not only the acquisition of the English language, but the acclimation process to the culture of the United States as well as other English speaking countries like Canada, Australia, and New Zealand.[14] 
A common problem in adult education in the US is the lack of professional development opportunities for adult educators. 
Most adult educators come from other professions and are not well trained to deal with adult learning issues. 
Most of the positions available in this field are only part-time without any benefits or stability since they are usually funded by government grants that might last for only a couple of years. However, in Canada, professional development is available in all provinces and territories through postsecondary institutions and most Provinces also provide professional development through their ministry of education or school boards and through nongovernmental organizations.[15] In addition, there are programs about adult education for existing and aspiring practitioners offered, at various academic levels, by universities, colleges, and professional organizations.[16] 
Principles 