New Questions Over California Water Project
Critics and a state lawmaker say they want more explanations on who's paying for a proposed $16 billion water project backed by Gov. Jerry Brown, after a leading California water district said Brown's administration was offering government funding to finish the planning for the two giant water tunnels.
Critics said the government funding described by the Los Angeles-based Metropolitan Water District on Thursday could run counter to long-standing state assurances that various local water districts, not California itself, would pay for Brown's vision of digging twin 35-mile-long tunnels to carry water from the Sacramento River south, mainly for Central and Southern California.
The $248 million in preliminary spending for the tunnels, which have yet to win regulatory approval, already is the topic of an ongoing federal audit.
On Wednesday, state lawmakers ordered a state audit of the tunnels-spending as well.
On Thursday, state spokeswoman Nancy Vogel said that despite the account of the Los Angeles-based Metropolitan Water District, no money from the state's general fund would be used finishing the current planning phase of the twin tunnels.
However, opponents of the tunnels and a taxpayer group were critical Thursday, and Assemblywoman Susan Eggman, one of the state lawmakers behind this week's audit order, asked the state Thursday for clarification.
"It's a shell game," said David Wolfe, the Howard Jarvis Taxpayers Association's legislative director.
I think it comes back to the audit (request) yesterday: There are way more questions here than there are answers.
The tunnels project is endorsed by Brown and by some politically influential water districts and water customers in Central and Southern California.
Supporters say the tunnels would benefit the environment and offer Californians a more secure water supply.
Opponents say they fear the state will use the tunnels to divert too much water from the Sacramento River and San Francisco Bay, harming Northern California and further endangering native species there.
Metropolitan and other water districts slated to get water from the tunnels have yet to commit to paying for them, out of uncertainty whether the massive spending would really bring them enough water to make the cost worthwhile.
The same water districts also announced this year they would not pay to complete the current preliminary work on the tunnels unless the project first won regulatory approval.
On Thursday, a monthly report published by the LA-based water district on the tunnels project said, "the state has indicated that any additional funding needs to complete the planning phase will be provided by state or federal sources."
After all that local water districts had spent on the project, including $63 million from his water district, "This is to be expected" that the state would use government money to close out planning, said Bob Muir, spokesman for the LA-based water district.
He referred further questions to Vogel, the state spokeswoman.
Vogel said the state intended to pull money to finish the tunnels planning from user fees for an existing, half-century-old water network, the State Water Project.
Tunnel opponents, however, point to a measure state lawmakers passed in 2009 that they say bars the state from spending money on the tunnels until the water agencies that would benefit commit to paying for them.
"Project contractors pledged to pay for this project and they've used financial gimmicks to get around this obligation," said Patricia Schifferle, an environmental consultant and longtime opponent of the proposed tunnels.
It raises questions as to where this money was suddenly found.
Business Groups Appeal to China Over Cybersecurity Law
A coalition of international business groups has appealed to China to change proposed cybersecurity rules they warn will harm trade and isolate the country.
The letter to Chinese Premier Li Keqiang is signed by 46 groups from the United States, Europe, Asia and Latin America, reflecting the global scale of concern the rules might limit or cut off access to China's market for information security products.
Signers include the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the European Services Forum and groups from Japan, Korea and Mexico.
The proposed rules would require providers to show Chinese authorities how security products work and to store information about Chinese citizens within the country.
The latest letter, dated Wednesday, says that might make data theft easier and reduce access to Chinese customers.
Tianjin chemical blast: Deadly disaster marked one year on
Zhang Mengfan says the public deserves to know what happened in the Tianjin blasts
China's leaders may want muted commemorations to mark the first anniversary of the massive chemical blast that killed 173 people, but not everyone agrees.
John Sudworth reports from Tianjin.
Almost anywhere else in the world the anniversary of a disaster of this magnitude would present a moment of national soul-searching.
But not in China.
While a memorial service to some of the dead firefighters is being held in the city of Tianjin, elsewhere the tributes are being muted.
The Communist Party-controlled media is being told what it can and cannot say and some survivors, as well as family members of the dead, are being warned not to speak to the foreign press.
But 23-year-old Zhang Mengfan won't stay quiet.
"On this anniversary there should be a way for the public to know what happened," he tells me.
I don't want silence.
On 12 August last year, Mr Zhang was a radio operator with a military fire brigade, stationed just a kilometre from the epicentre of the explosions.
"The call came in at 10:53 that night and we started to despatch my teammates," he says.
It would have taken them 10 minutes to get to the scene.
Other crews from elsewhere in the city were also arriving to tackle the large fire in a chemical storage depot.
All of them would have been oblivious to the fact that large quantities of volatile and toxic substances were being illegally stored, way beyond permitted amounts and without proper management.
The fire had started when a batch of nitrocellulose - a chemical used in nail polish - had been allowed to dry out and then ignited in the summer heat.
It then spread to a huge stockpile - 800 tonnes - of ammonium nitrate fertilizer.
The resulting explosions shattered the windows and brought the roof in at the fire station where Zhang Mengfan was waiting by the radio for reports from the scene.
Those reports never came in.
"When I saw the mushroom cloud I fell into a state of desperation," he tells me.
I knew what it would mean for my friends.
Of the 26 firefighters sent to the blaze from his unit that night, eight never came back.
