And if it were OUR WILL, WE could make angels from amongst you, succeeding each other on the earth."
(58:15) God has prepared a severe punishment for them; surely what they have done is evil.
She said: "This will be enormously helpful, we are all very grateful."
Say: the truth came and the falsehood does not initiate (anything) and it does not return.
Covering [all] the people: this is an excruciating torment.
Say, "The Truth has come; and in no way (can) untruth start (anything) and in no way (can) it bring back (anything)."
He will say, 'Go to Nûh (Noah,
And if We please, We could make among you angels to be successors in the land."[2]
If you do, be exceedingly thankful.
But, they are in doubt, playing."
and the person to whom mercy is shown will typically be grateful.
90; In fact We brought the Truth to them, and indeed they are liars.
If we wanted to, we would you to the angels who followed you on Earth.
A nation and a group of nations will come from you.
All is from Him, and to Him will all be returned.
It will envelope the people; this is a painful retribution."
"No; they are in doubt, playing."
And Allah testifies that the hypocrites are certainly the liars.
Which they will be grateful for.
And when you pray, always give thanks."
covering the people; this is a painful chastisement.
Verily (1)
A nd if it were Our Will, We could make angels from amongst you, succeeding each other on the earth.
Ask them about what they wish most people knew about them.
Verily, they have been in grave doubt about The Quran.
if it had been Our will, We could have made you angels, succeeding one another on earth.
"Allah testifies that the hypocrites are liars."
16 there shall be one code and one law for you and for the immigrant living among you."
Indeed, if you are grateful, he will certainly give you more.
And if We willed, We could have made some of you Angels to be successors on Earth.
And if We willed, We could have made some of you angels to be successors on the earth.
14 He will bring you a message through which you and all your household will be saved."
[Shakir 3:123] And Allah's is the unseen in the heavens and the earth, and to Him is returned the whole of the affair; therefore serve Him and rely on Him, and your Lord is not heedless of what you do.
Is this the case of 'your enemy's enemy is your friend?'
God is the only one able to judge and he will do that when she dies and stands before him!
And if We had willed, We would have made out of you angels to replace you in the earth.
"O Lord our God!
So what made the people of Noah's time so distasteful to God?
[ylt] O My people, what have I done to thee?
Noah and his family were thankful, and that pleased the Lord.
It was stated: "O Nûh (Noah)!
11 I am with you (AG) and will save you,'
"It was said: "O Nuh!
And if it were Our Will, We would have (destroyed mankind and) made angels to replace you on the earth.
Prayers for his continued recovery [and Mom and Dad's peace of mind!] would be greatly appreciated!
And if it were Our Will, We would have (destroyed you all, and) made angels to replace you on the earth.
"Verily, We showed him the way, whether he be grateful or ungrateful" [Quran 76:3]
Our Lord, we have indeed believed, forgive us our sins, and save us from the punishment of the fire (of hell).
And Allah"s is the unseen in the heavens and the earth, and to Him is returned the whole of the affair; therefore serve Him and rely on Him, and your Lord is not heedless of what you do."123"
Verily, We it is Who have shown him the Way, whether he be grateful or ungrateful.
O Israel, put your hope in the LORD.