Kosovo's privatisation process is under scrutiny
Kosovo is taking a hard look at its privatisation process in light of recurring complaints.
By Muhamet Brajshori for Southeast European Times in Pristina -- 21/03/12
Feronikel was privatised five years ago, and is still in business, but operates amid concerns for workers’ safety. [Reuters]
On paper at least, it looks like a great idea.
The government sells a business, gets out from under the yoke of management, and money from the sale helps to fund the state budget.
But in Kosovo, critics say the legal process involved with privatisation is both complex and politically charged, which will have a long-term impact on the economy.
They say some owners or employees can take advantage of specific loopholes while others get almost nothing.
There is also an ethnic component, since individuals from various communities can say that discrimination -- either ongoing or previous -- affected their ability to benefit from privatisation.
Esat Berisha is one such example.
""My father worked at Hidroteknika, [as did] I until December 1990, but then I was removed because Serbian authorities removed us.
And after the war I hoped to get back to my job, but it never happened.""
After Hidroteknika was privatised in 2006, ""I never got any compensation, and the worst is that the company does not exist anymore, because the new owner has changed the destiny of it,"" Berisha told SETimes.
In some cases, companies were bought more for the land than for any desire to keep operating them.
He is not alone: discriminatory legislation imposed by the Milosevic regime forced thousands in Kosovo to leave their jobs.
Beyond that, many companies that have been privatised have changed work locations, and very often employees, like Berisha, are shed from payrolls, prompting frequent protests in front of the Privatisation Agency.
Dardan Sejdiu, an economy expert from the Vetvendosje Movement, is a vocal critic.
""A decade later, we see that the economy is terribly unstructured.
Most manufacturing companies no longer exist or are used for storage of goods; efficiency as a concept seems were only words and unemployment is deepening.
And ultimately the number of foreign investors has been symbolic, and the amount invested by them was symbolic,"" Sejdiu told SETimes.
More than 600m euros that were transferred to banks abroad and unused by Kosovo's government are the result of the privatisation of public and state-owned companies in recent years.
Sejdiu says it's too little, that some countries in the region have sold just one or a few companies for that amount.
Seb Bytyci, executive director of Balkan Policy Institute, agrees.
""The main shortcomings are selling for lower prices, as the value [of the companies] decreased due to mismanagement, dysfunction of enterprises, and corruption charges,"" he told SETimes.
There is also the cost of opportunity lost: ""In some cases, privatisation may have led to better services and efficiency.""
Sejdiu says that, in hindsight, the process ""was hastily done … without a plan for economic development"" and that privatisation has led to major problems for workers.
He cites companies in the eastern Ana Morava region, where there were formerly ""closed to 17,000 workers in enterprises which are now privatized.
Today these enterprises employ [less than] 1,700 of them -- not even 10% of the workforce was maintained,"" Sejdiu argued.
Bytyci says strong workers' unions would have lead to better outcomes.
""Here the main problem is lack of true unions.
Workers were not able to negotiate a deal that provides an easier transition.
So many workers are dismissed.
As for those who continue to work, [there is no] guarantee for their safety at work.
Ferronikeli is a flagrant case where a lack of political will to fix the issue of job security threatens workers' lives,"" he told SETimes.
In the recent months, several workers at the Feronikel company in central Kosovo have been injured, forcing Parliament Speaker Jakup Krasniqi to call for better and safer working conditions.
Feronikel was privatised in 2007.
Media mogul's sentence renews debate in Macedonia
Some allege the verdict of Velija Ramkovski is an attack on media freedom, but others claim the evidence of his crimes proves otherwise.
By Klaudija Lutovska for Southeast European Times in Skopje -- 21/03/12
Media mogul Velija Ramkovski was sentenced to 13 years in prison for tax evasion and money laundering. [Tomislav Georgiev/SETimes]
A criminal verdict and prison sentence against media mogul Velija Ramkovski, a frequent critic of the Macedonian government, threatens to have a chilling effect on the press, according to journalists in the small Balkan nation.
Ramkovski, former owner of the A1 television station, four newspapers and other enterprises, was sentenced in Skopje criminal court on March 14th to 13 years in prison for money laundering, criminal conspiracy, abuse of position and tax evasion; 19 accomplices received prison terms of two to seven years.
A1 TV and four newspapers were closed for failing to pay taxes and fulfill obligations to creditors.
""The impression is that the actions undertaken towards these media, for which the verdicts were given, are selective and the institutions do not use the same methods in applying the laws towards all media,"" Macedonia Media Institute director Biljana Petkovska told SETimes.
Some journalists, particularly former A1 TV employees, maintain that case, nicknamed ""Cobweb,"" represents a fight between the government and the then most powerful TV station in Macedonia that was critical of its policies and in support of the opposition.
""The current political establishment is going to put under absolute control every free thought and every opinion that is against it.
Its goal, and today that is proven, was to quiet A1 TV and Velija Ramkovski as carriers of the struggle against the dictatorship of [Prime Minister] Nikola Gruevski,"" former A1 TV editor and opposition Sandzak League MP Safet Bishevac said.
Officials responded that A1 TV has been treated the same as any other organisation, Ramkovski was guilty of years of criminal activity.
""This is an uncompromising fight against crime and corruption that exist in all countries, but whose sanction depends mostly on the political will of relevant factors and the ability and capacity of institutions to independently perform their work,"" ruling VMRO MP Antono Milososki told SETimes.
Prosecutors supplied 25 witnesses who testified that Ramkovski evaded paying 4.5m euros in taxes and gained 17.5m euros through frauddulant means -- such as by issuing bills with false content.