It happened after the death of Saul, when David was returned from the slaughter of the Amalekites, and David had stayed two days in Ziklag;
it happened on the third day, that behold, a man came out of the camp from Saul, with his clothes torn, and earth on his head: and so it was, when he came to David, that he fell to the earth, and showed respect.
David said to him, "Where do you come from?" He said to him, "I have escaped out of the camp of Israel."
David said to him, "How did it go? Please tell me." He answered, "The people have fled from the battle, and many of the people also have fallen and are dead; and Saul and Jonathan his son are dead also."
David said to the young man who told him, "How do you know that Saul and Jonathan his son are dead?"
The young man who told him said, "As I happened by chance on Mount Gilboa, behold, Saul was leaning on his spear; and behold, the chariots and the horsemen followed hard after him.
When he looked behind him, he saw me, and called to me. I answered, 'Here I am.'
He said to me, 'Who are you?' I answered him, 'I am an Amalekite.'
He said to me, 'Please stand beside me, and kill me; for anguish has taken hold of me, because my life is yet whole in me.'
So I stood beside him, and killed him, because I was sure that he could not live after that he had fallen. I took the crown that was on his head, and the bracelet that was on his arm, and have brought them here to my lord."
Then David took hold on his clothes, and tore them; and likewise all the men who were with him.
They mourned, and wept, and fasted until evening, for Saul, and for Jonathan his son, and for the people of Yahweh, and for the house of Israel; because they were fallen by the sword.
David said to the young man who told him, "Where are you from?" He answered, "I am the son of a foreigner, an Amalekite."
David said to him, "How were you not afraid to put forth your hand to destroy Yahweh's anointed?"
David called one of the young men, and said, "Go near, and fall on him." He struck him, so that he died.
David said to him, "Your blood be on your head; for your mouth has testified against you, saying, 'I have slain Yahweh's anointed.'"
David lamented with this lamentation over Saul and over Jonathan his son
(and he commanded them to teach the children of Judah the song of the bow: behold, it is written in the book of Jashar):
"Your glory, Israel, is slain on your high places! How the mighty have fallen!
Don't tell it in Gath. Don't publish it in the streets of Ashkelon, lest the daughters of the Philistines rejoice, lest the daughters of the uncircumcised triumph.
You mountains of Gilboa, let there be no dew nor rain on you, neither fields of offerings; For there the shield of the mighty was vilely cast away, The shield of Saul was not anointed with oil.
From the blood of the slain, from the fat of the mighty, Jonathan's bow didn't turn back. Saul's sword didn't return empty.
Saul and Jonathan were lovely and pleasant in their lives. In their death, they were not divided. They were swifter than eagles. They were stronger than lions.
You daughters of Israel, weep over Saul, who clothed you in scarlet delicately, who put ornaments of gold on your clothing.
How are the mighty fallen in the midst of the battle! Jonathan is slain on your high places.
I am distressed for you, my brother Jonathan. You have been very pleasant to me. Your love to me was wonderful, passing the love of women.
How are the mighty fallen, and the weapons of war perished!"
It happened after this, that David inquired of Yahweh, saying, "Shall I go up into any of the cities of Judah?" Yahweh said to him, "Go up." David said, "Where shall I go up?" He said, "To Hebron."
So David went up there, and his two wives also, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.
David brought up his men who were with him, every man with his household. They lived in the cities of Hebron.
The men of Judah came, and there they anointed David king over the house of Judah. They told David, saying, "The men of Jabesh Gilead were those who buried Saul."
David sent messengers to the men of Jabesh Gilead, and said to them, "Blessed are you by Yahweh, that you have shown this kindness to your lord, even to Saul, and have buried him.
Now may Yahweh show loving kindness and truth to you. I also will reward you for this kindness, because you have done this thing.
Now therefore let your hands be strong, and be valiant; for Saul your lord is dead, and also the house of Judah have anointed me king over them."
Now Abner the son of Ner, captain of Saul's army, had taken Ishbosheth the son of Saul, and brought him over to Mahanaim;
and he made him king over Gilead, and over the Ashurites, and over Jezreel, and over Ephraim, and over Benjamin, and over all Israel.
Ishbosheth, Saul's son, was forty years old when he began to reign over Israel, and he reigned two years. But the house of Judah followed David.
The time that David was king in Hebron over the house of Judah was seven years and six months.
Abner the son of Ner, and the servants of Ishbosheth the son of Saul, went out from Mahanaim to Gibeon.
Joab the son of Zeruiah, and the servants of David, went out, and met them by the pool of Gibeon; and they sat down, the one on the one side of the pool, and the other on the other side of the pool.
Abner said to Joab, "Please let the young men arise and play before us!" Joab said, "Let them arise!"
Then they arose and went over by number: twelve for Benjamin, and for Ishbosheth the son of Saul, and twelve of the servants of David.
They each caught his opponent by the head, and thrust his sword in his fellow's side; so they fell down together: therefore that place was called Helkath Hazzurim, which is in Gibeon.
The battle was very severe that day: and Abner was beaten, and the men of Israel, before the servants of David.
The three sons of Zeruiah were there, Joab, and Abishai, and Asahel: and Asahel was as light of foot as a wild gazelle.
Asahel pursued after Abner; and in going he didn't turn to the right hand nor to the left from following Abner.
Then Abner looked behind him, and said, "Is it you, Asahel?" He answered, "It is I."
Abner said to him, "Turn aside to your right hand or to your left, and grab one of the young men, and take his armor." But Asahel would not turn aside from following him.
Abner said again to Asahel, "Turn aside from following me. Why should I strike you to the ground? How then should I hold up my face to Joab your brother?"
However he refused to turn aside. Therefore Abner with the back end of the spear struck him in the body, so that the spear came out behind him; and he fell down there, and died in the same place. It happened, that as many as came to the place where Asahel fell down and died stood still.
