en
Best wishes to our dear colleague, researcher of Estonian, Latvian and also Livonian language contacts Lembit Vaba on the occasion of receiving the Latvian and Estonian Ministries of foreign affairs Language prize!
Greetings to the president elect of the Republic of Estonia Alar Karis – former rector of the University of Tartu, who being the director of the Estonian National museum is also a keeper of the Livonian heritage!
Laimonis Rudzitis – descendant of Riga Livonians – 115!
Monthly item – Livonian Summer University and the Lāži Oak
The tradition of the Livonian Summer University since the beginning in 2013 has been a photograph of its participants at the famous Lāžu Oak on the Livonian Coast.
From July 30 to August 8, 2021, the third Livonian Summer University took place in Košrags, organized by the UL Livonian Institute in cooperation with the University of Tartu.
During the Livonian Summer University, the participants learned Livonian, met with Livonian speakers, got acquainted with the Livonian history, culture and learnt about the situation nowadays; one of the topics also including the last historical settlement of the Livonians – the Livonian Coast, which is why it was chosen as the venue of the Livonian Summer University.
The tradition of the Livonian Summer University since the beginning in 2013 has been a photograph of its participants at the famous Lāži Oak on the Livonian Coast.
Lāži Oak has been the decor and treasure of the Lāžu homestead in the village of Vaide for at least two hundred years. Nika Polmanis (1823), the first professionally educated Livonian teacher, was born in Lāži homestead; since the 60s of the 19th century, the Launičs’ family, whose representative Andrejs Launičs wrote descriptions of Livonian weddings and household customs in the 19th century.
The Lāži house has also been a Livonian elementary school children (1923–1937).
At the end of the 1930s, Alfons Bertholds (1910–1993) – a fisherman, a Livonian poet, and a connoisseur of Livonian folklore – became the owner of Lāži homestead, and even now the Bertholds’ family still watch over the territory from underneath the Lāži Oak.
Livonian Summer University has ended, but some of it's moments may be re-experienced through the Latvian TV.
Once more – many, many thanks to all of participants for your keen and enthusiastic participation and to our supporters – University of Tartu ASTRA project PER ASPERA, Izglītības un zinātnes ministrija, Latvijas Universitāte and other friends for the successful cooperation.
Special thanks to TV9 Pakalni for the hearth warming meeting and Marc Daniel Skibsted Volhardt, Tuuli Tuisk and Miina Norvik for sharing your experiences.
Tomorrow already the third Livonian Summer University begins in Kuoštrõg!
Monthly item – Cape of Kolka Lighthouse's residential building
In the magazine "Ilustrētā Junioriem" (Illustrated for Juniors) Daniels Skulte asks "Is the Livonian language still alive?" The magazine, with the help of the UL Livonian Institute, provides answers about the Livonian language today and in the past, as well as about the connection between the Livonian and Latvian languages.
Many thanks to Daniels for the question asked!
Wishing you all a Happy Midsummer!
A conversation with Helmī Stalte
The lavish seaside – see you in Irē (Mazirbe)!
Congratulations to Latvia on the anniversary of its restoration of independence!
Thank you to everyone who voted for the restoration of independence 30 years ago, but especially to one of the Livonians Ilmārs Geige!
A friendly greeting to all Estonians from the professor of UL Janīna Kursīte and her family.
A book by Renāte Bumberga about Livonian National House has been published in the University of Latvia.
Congratulations to Tõnis Lukas – the new director of the Estonian Literature Museum, where the main collection on the Livonian Intangible heritage is stored!
Monthly Item – large-format portrait (122×207 cm) of Nick Polmanis from the director’s Uģis Olte upcoming feature film “Upurga”.
DHN2020 conference proceedings have been published.
In them you can get acquainted with the article “Taking the Livonians into the Digital Space” by Gunta Kļava and Valts Ernštreits, researchers of the UL Livonian Institute. The article focuses on digital humanities and how they can help endangered languages and cultures, especially the Livonian language.
Karl Pajusalu on the radio tells about Ludza Estonian language.
UL Livonian institute's scientific assistants Elvīra Kalniņa and Annija Lazdiņa participated in the Zinātnieku nakts 2021 and told about their experience, responsibilities and research.
Happy Independence restoration day, dear Latvia!
Today Livonians are waking birds.
Listen to the Livonian traditional bird-waking song performed by the Livonian poet and culture keeper Pētõr Damberg!
101 years ago the Mother Tongue Society (Estonia) was founded. It's first published book was also the first secular book in Livonian – First Livonian Reader!
Happy birthday!
On March 24, at the demonstration seminar on the possibilities of using digital resources of Humanities, the UL Livonian Institute will talk about their designed resources for the Livonian language and culture.
If we can't go to Kūolka, Kūolka is coming to us!
UL Livonian Institute participates in the discussion on indigenous issues – 2nd day.
UL Livonian Institute participates in the discussion on indigenous issues.
Speech on Livonians is expected tomorrow.
UL Livonian Institute researcher Uldis Balodis's book "Lutsi kiele lementar. Ludzas igauņu valodas ābece" is recognized as the best social sciences book of 2020 at the University of Latvia!"
103! Daudz laimes dzimšanas dienā, dārgā Igaunija!"
The collection of Livonian photographs created by the Finnish linguist Vilho Setälä in 1912 can now be seen in colour.
Thanks to Twan Goosen for the colouring work.
Valts Ernštreits, Head of the UL Livonian Institute, on the preservation and use of the language and intangible heritage of Kurzeme, the accessibility of culture in the regions and the use of digital resources in the discussion group on the development of the Kurzeme Planning Region Development Programme 2021–2027.
LSM: "Livonian language needs reanimation". A call for the rescue of Europe's most endangered language.
Seeking vanished words: UL Livonian Institute researcher Uldis Balodis on languages, life in Arizona, and himself.
The sound of Livonian also during the International Mother Language Day!
