"Changing Lives _BAR_ Changing Society _BAR_ How It Works _BAR_ Technology Drives Change Home _BAR_ Concepts _BAR_ Teachers _BAR_ Search _BAR_ Overview _BAR_ Credits _BAR_ HHCC Web _BAR_ Reference _BAR_ Feedback Virtual Museum of Canada Home Page
Site map
Feedback
Credits
Français
What is light ?
The white light spectrum Codes in the light The electromagnetic spectrum Emission spectra Absorption spectra Light-years Light pollution
The sky of the first inhabitants A contemporary vison of the Universe Astronomy for everyone
Cartoon
Links
Glossary
Observatories
Astronomers Introduction Introduction video What is Astronomy?
Often considered the oldest science, it was born of our amazement at the sky and our need to question Astronomy is the science of space beyond Earth's atmosphere.
The name is derived from the Greek root astron for star, and nomos for arrangement or law.
Astronomy is concerned with celestial objects and phenomena - like stars, planets, comets and galaxies - as well as the large-scale properties of the Universe, also known as ""The Big Picture"".
More specifically, astronomy is the study of the origin and evolution of the Universe, the physics and chemistry of celestial objects, and the calculation of their positions and motions.
For most people, astronomy represents a world that is both mysterious and grandiose - a story about glimmering celestial objects and the immensity of the cosmos.
It prompts us to ask the deepest existential questions:
Who are we?
Where did we come from?
Are we alone?
The lure of these universal enigmas was the spark that ignited the passion of many of today's famous astronomers.
Astronomy also plays a much more practical role that is not nearly as important today as it was in the past.
Since the time of our earliest ancestors, humans have used the motions of celestial objects to position themselves in space and time.
Prehistoric humans studied the relationship between the seasons and the length of days to plan their hunting and gathering activities.
It was also by observing the positions of the stars that the first farmers decided when to plant and when to harvest, and early navigators could sail the oceans blue.
In the Age of Antiquity, astrometry - the measurement of the positions of stars and planets - was the main occupation of astronomers.
There was some degree of interest for astronomy from the general public as well, since they believed that the positions of celestial objects influenced events that took place on Earth.
?During the Renaissance, advances in mathematics coupled with the invention of new observational instruments (like the refracting telescope) gave rise to modern astronomy.
From the 19th century onwards, the discovery of the electromagnetic spectrum and the world of the atom spurred on the development of astrophysics, a new discipline in astronomy that is now considered to be the most important.
Today, astronomy covers several disciplines:
o Astrometry, which is the precise measurement of the position of stars and planets, and which is greatly facilitated by the use of modern CCD cameras and computers
o Stellar astronomy, which is the study of the origins and evolution of stars
o Galactic astronomy, which studies the structure and components of galaxies
o Astrophysics, which studies the Universe and the physics of its constituents (luminosity, temperature, chemical composition)
o Cosmology, which studies the origin and evolution of the Universe as a whole Related to these fields of research are two disciplines that lie more within the domain of geologists and biologists: planetary science, which is the study of asteroids, comets and planets, and astrobiology, which studies the possibility of life in the Universe.
Nowadays, professional astronomers have a strong background in astrophysics and their observations are almost always examined in an astrophysical context.
The most serious amateurs actively participate in the study of variable stars, the discovery of new asteroids or comets, and other exciting astronomical work.
Video Sequence??John Richard Bond explains what the purpose of astronomy is .
© 2006 An original idea and a realization of the ASTROLab of Mont-Mégantic National Park
Astronomers © 2006 An original idea and a realization of the ASTROLab of Mont-Mégantic National Park
Astronomers Timeline
Verbatim A journey into Canadian astronomy
Instruments The ancient Egyptians use the transit for the first time about 4,000 years ago.
Instruments The astrolab and octant are the predecessors of the sextant.
Observatories For thousands of years, native people use the stars to navigate and to monitor the passage of time.
Stars are also the inspiration for native legends, which are passed down from generation to generation.
Instruments The Assyrians are likely the first to use lenses to magnify objects, probably around 1,500 BC.
Evolution of images Flemish painter Jan van Eyck makes the first known drawing of the Moon in his painting entitled ""The crucifixion""."