Amongst all the troubling deficits we struggle with today — we think of financial and economic primarily — the ones that concern me most is the deficit of political dialogue — our ability to address modern conflicts as they are, to go to the source of what they're all about and to understand the key players and to deal with them.
We who are diplomats, we are trained to deal with conflicts between states and issues between states.
And I can tell you, our agenda is full.
There is trade, there is disarmament, there is cross-border relations.
But the picture is changing, and we are seeing that there are new key players coming onto the scene.
We loosely call them "" groups. "" They may represent social, religious, political, economic, military realities.
And we struggle with how to deal with them.
The rules of engagement: how to talk, when to talk, and how to deal with them.
Let me show you a slide here which illustrates the character of conflicts since 1946 until today.
You see the green is a traditional interstate conflict, the ones we used to read about.
The red is modern conflict, conflicts within states.
These are quite different, and they are outside the grasp of modern diplomacy.
And the core of these key actors are groups who represent different interests inside countries.
And the way they deal with their conflicts rapidly spreads to other countries.
So in a way, it is everybody's business.
Another acknowledgment we've seen during these years, recent years, is that very few of these domestic interstate, intrastate conflicts can be solved militarily.
They may have to be dealt with with military means, but they cannot be solved by military means.
They need political solutions.
And we, therefore, have a problem, because they escape traditional diplomacy.
And we have among states a reluctance in dealing with them.
Plus, during the last decade, we've been in the mode where dealing with groups was conceptually and politically dangerous.
After 9 / 11, either you were with us or against us.
It was black or white.
And groups are very often immediately label terrorists.
And who would talk to terrorists?
The West, as I would see it, comes out of that decade weakened, because we didn't understand the group.
So we've spent more time on focusing on why we should not talk to others than finding out how we talk to others.
Now I'm not naive.
You cannot talk to everybody all the time.
And there are times you should walk.
And sometimes military intervention is necessary.
I happen to believe that Libya was necessary and that military intervention in Afghanistan was also necessary.
And my country relies on its security through military alliance, that's clear.
But still we have a large deficit in dealing with and understanding modern conflict.
Let us turn to Afghanistan.
10 years after that military intervention, that country is far from secure.
The situation, to be honest, is very serious.
Now again, the military is necessary, but the military is no problem-solver.
When I first came to Afghanistan in 2005 as a foreign minister, I met the commander of ISAF, the international troops.
And he told me that, "" This can be won militarily, minister.
We just have to persevere. "" Now four COM ISAF's later, we hear a different message: "" This cannot be won militarily.
We need military presence, but we need to move to politics.
We can only solve this through a political solution.
And it is not us who will solve it; Afghans have to solve it. "" But then they need a different political process than the one they were given in 2001, 2002.
They need an inclusive process where the real fabric of this very complicated society can deal with their issues.
Everybody seems to agree with that.
It was very controversial to say three, four, five years ago.
Now everybody agrees.
But now, as we prepare to talk, we understand how little we know.
Because we didn't talk.
