But you fear what you do not know.
nevertheless you shall die like human beings,
If you find yourself in either situation, consider the example of Moses.
Only believers of this kind could enter heaven after death, which means that they were saved.
They undoubtedly taught their son, Samson, God's law, and their efforts evidently met with success.
Let them be erased from the book of life and not be recorded with the righteous. ×
We may even find it daunting to preach the good news of God's Kingdom, as Christians are required to do.
And the Hereafter with your Lord is for those who fear [God].
I am a clear Warner to you.
strikes with it whomever He wills, and turns it from whomever He wills.
There will be an attack on God's people.
and I will give them their recompense in truth,
7:62 (sent) to convey to you the messages of my Lord and to advise you, for I know from Allah what you do not know.
Thou createdst me of fire, whilst him Thou didst create of clay," (Qur'an 38:76).
and Give them joy in My House of Prayer.
for we called on him heretofore; and he is the beneficent, the merciful.
Only when my brothers were on their way back early in the morning did I encounter them."
(Jeremiah 3:12) When his people returned to him in genuine repentance, he forgave them.
He will rise up against the house of evildoers.
Let those who fear you turn to me, and those who know your testimonies.
Oh, miserable are those who do not take advantage of the miracle of God's mercy!
(88:2) On that Day, there shall be downcast faces,
Yes, the subjects of God's Kingdom will do God's will, recognizing the Creator  - not any fellow human -  as rightful Ruler.
So he bowed down their heart with heaviness; they stumbled and there was none to help them.
And they lived in place of them, in their dwellings, throughout the entire region that looks to the east of Gilead.
He has given food to those who fear him.He always remembers his covenant.
Who made the heavens in wisdom, for his mercy endures forever
and the house of Joseph, a burning flame,
Yet, he never doubted that the Creator understands us in every way.
For I have laid upon thee the years of their iniquity,....
Then he said, "These are the two anointed ones who are standing by the Lord of the whole earth ."
Let those who fear turn to me, and those who have known Your testimonies.
The Devil contended that if mankind listened to him, things would work out better for them.
But ye shall die like men (because of your sins), and fall like one of the princes."
People may say to us: "Life is to be enjoyed.
And in their time, they will not ignore his word.
Till this day they are terrified.
The one he wishes to harden, he hardens" (my translation).
And We turned them to the right and to the left.
He wrote: "Let us pursue the things making for peace and the things that are upbuilding to one another.
GOD asks us to treat others according to what is right and fair by His standards.
Do you see why God destroyed that world? - The people were bad, and they thought about what was "bad all the time."
By virtue of Our signs, you and those who follow you will be the triumphant.
Would you like to know the truth about angels  - who they are, how they came into existence, and what they do?
them: "In My Father's house there are many dwelling places (homes).
And He shall come unto us as the rain.
Our hearts swell with appreciation when we think of all these self-sacrificing servants of God.
So he said, "These are the two anointed ones who stand by the Lord of the whole earth."
[Soorah al-Hujurat (49): 13] "And the Hereafter with Your Lord is (only) for those who have Taqwa."
For day and night your hand was upon me."
