Majgull Axelsson:
April witch. Random House 2002.
Övers.
Linda Schenck. "WHO'S OUT THERE?" asks my sister.
She's more perceptive than the others, the only one who ever senses my presence.
She looks like a bird right now, standing there craning her neck, staring out across the backyard.
She's wearing nothing but a gray bathrobe over her white nightgown, and doesn't seem to notice last night's frost hanging in the air.
Her robe is open, the belt untied, dangling from one single loop.
Like a slender tail feather, it trails behind her down the steps from the kitchen.
She swivels her head sharply, listening in the direction of the yard, awaiting a response.
When none is forthcoming, she repeats her question, now in a shriller, more anxious tone of voice:
"Who's out there?"
Her breath forms small white plumes, very becoming to her ethereal type.
Like mist, I thought the very first time I ever saw her.
It was a hot August day many summers ago, long before I had moved into assisted accommodation.
A medical conference was about to begin in the auditorium of the nursing home, and Hubertsson had gotten them to roll my wheelchair out and park me in the shade of the big maple tree.
He orchestrated a coincidence in which he bumped into Christina WuIf in the parking lot and got her to walk across the big lawn where I was sitting.
The heels of her pumps went right through the soft grass, and when she reached the graveled yard she stopped for a moment to make sure there was no dirt stuck under her shoes.
That was when I noticed she was wearing panty hose, despite the heat.
A neat blouse, a calf-length skirt, and panty hose.
All in shades of white and gray.
"Your elder sister is one of those ladies who washes her hands in chlorine bleach," Hubertsson had said before showing her to me.
On the surface, that was a good description.
But not completely adequate.
Now that I could see her in the flesh, she seemed to me so ambiguous in both shape and color that the laws of physical matter failed to apply to her. She should be able to seep like smoke through closed windows and locked doors.
For one instant as he reached out to support her, I thought Hubertsson's hand was going to pass straight through her arm.
Which wouldn't have been so strange, really.
We often forget that what we consider laws of nature are actually nothing but our ignorant ideas about a highly complex reality.
For instance, the fact that we are living in a cloud of particles with no substance: photons and neutrinos.
Or the fact that all matter - even that of which the human body is composed - is primarily emptiness, a vacuum.
The distance between the particles in the atoms is just as great as the distance between a star and its planets.
What gives rise to surface and solidity is not the particles themselves, in other words, but the electromagnetic field that hinds them.
Quantum physics also teaches us that the very smallest elements of matter are not just particles.
They are also waves.
Simultaneously.
For the duration of a microsecond the electron tries out its potential positions, and for that instant all its possibilities are equally real.
So everything is in flux.
As we know.
Seen in light of this there is nothing particularly peculiar about the fact that some of us are able to violate the laws of physics.
But when Hubertsson's hand reached Christina as she stood there on one foot examining the sole of her shoe, she turned out to have contours just as solid as those of any other human being.
His hand grasped her arm and remained there.
She hasn't become less transparent over the years; she still looks like she might dissolve at any moment and drift away in a jumble of waves and particles.
But, of course, this is simply an illusion. Christina is actually a solidly coherent lump of human matter.
Extraordinarily coherent, even.
And now her electrons have decided to change position.
She blinks and forgets me, tightens her bathrobe around her body, and walks, her rubber boots squelching, along the slushy gravel path in the direction of the mailbox and the morning papers.
The letter is at the bottom of the mailbox.
When she catches sight of it a tiny wave of horror wafts like a breeze through the yard.
Astrid, she thinks, just as she remembers that Astrid is dead, that she has, in fact, been dead for three years.
That is some comfort.
