The story which follows was first written out in Paris during the Peace Conference
from notes jotted daily on the march, strengthened by some reports sent to my chiefs in Cairo.
Afterwards, in the autumn of 1919, this first draft and some of the notes were lost.
It seemed to me historically needful to reproduce the tale, as perhaps no one but myself in Feisal's army had thought of writing down at the time what we felt, what we hoped, what we tried.
So it was built again with heavy repugnance in London in the winter of 1919 20 from memory and my surviving notes.
The record of events was not dulled in me and perhaps few actual mistakes crept in except in details of dates or numbers
but the outlines and significance of things had lost edge in the haze of new interests.
Dates and places are correct, so far as my notes preserved them: but the personal names are not.
Since the adventure some of those who worked with me have buried themselves in the shallow grave of public duty.
Free use has been made of their names.
Others still possess themselves, and here keep their secrecy.
Sometimes one man carried various names.
This may hide individuality and make the book a scatter of featureless puppets
rather than a group of living people
but once good is told of a man, and again evil, and some would not thank me for either blame or praise.
This isolated picture throwing the main light upon myself is unfair to my British colleagues.
Especially I am most sorry that I have not told what the non commissioned of us did.
They were but wonderful
especially when it is taken into account that they had not the motive, the imaginative vision of the end, which sustained officers.
Unfortunately my concern was limited to this end
and the book is just a designed procession of Arab freedom from Mecca to Damascus.
It is intended to rationalize the campaign, that everyone may see how natural the success was and how inevitable
how little dependent on direction or brain, how much less on the outside assistance of the few British.
It was an Arab war waged and led by Arabs for an Arab aim in Arabia.
My proper share was a minor one
but because of a fluent pen, a free speech, and a certain adroitess of brain
I took upon myself, as I describe it, a mock primacy.
In reality I never had any office among the Arabs:
was never in charge of the British mission with them.
Wilson, Joyce, Newcombe, Dawnay and Davenport were all over my head.
I flattered myself that I was too young, not that they had more heart or mind in the work, I did my best.
Wilson, Newcombe, Dawnay, Davenport, Buxton, Marshall, Stirling, Young
Maynard, Ross, Scott, Winterton, Lloyd, Wordie, Siddons, Goslett, Stent
Henderson, Spence, Gilman, Garland, Brodie, Makins, Nunan, Leeson, Hornby
Peake, Scott Higgins, Ramsay, Wood, Hinde, Bright, MacIndoe, Greenhill, Grisenthwaite, Dowsett, Bennett, Wade, Gray, Pascoe and the others also did their best.
It would be impertinent in me to praise them.
When I wish to say ill of one outside our number, I do it:
though there is less of this than was in my diary
since the passage of time seems to have bleached out men's stains.
When I wish to praise outsiders
I do it:
bur our family affairs are our own.
We did what we set out to do
and have the satisfaction of that knowledge.
The others have liberty some day to put on record their story
one parallel to mine but not mentioning more of me than I of them
for each of us did his job by himself and as he pleased, hardly seeing his friends.
In these pages the history is not of the Arab movement, but of me in it.
It is a narrative of daily life, mean happenings, little people.
Here are no lessons for the world, no disclosures to shock peoples.
