Mailing lists
KDE has several mailing lists up.
Older articles can be found in the mailing list archive.
kde-request@kde.org - KDE
kde-announce-request@kde.org - kde-announce
Announcements of new KDE applications
Users help each other
For developers.
kde-licensing-request@kde.org - kde-licensing
Discussion of licensing issues
kde-look-request@kde.org - kde-look
kde-artists-request@kde.org - kde-artists
Creating icons and other artwork
kde-doc-english-request@kde.org - kde-doc-english
For people interested in writing documentation for KDE.
kde-i18n-doc-request@kde.org - kde-18n-doc
http://i18n.kde.org/teams / "
To subscribe:
Leave the body of the message empty.
Do not include a signature or other text which might confuse the mail server that processes your request.
To unsubscribe:
Please replace "your-email-address" with the email address you used for the subscription.
Do not include a signature or other text which might confuse the mail server that processes your request.
Once you have subscribed to a mailing list, you will received a message telling you how to send messages to the mailing list, and how to alter your mailing list options.
Please do not send messages intended to be posted to the mailing list to the above addresses.
If the subscription address is identical to the address you are posting from, you may omit the address in the subject line.
Contacting the KDE developers
Contact addresses for developers can be found in the documentation of their individual applications.
Official Contacts
Please visit our Official Representatives page if you need to contact KDE in an official way.
More information
Please find more information about KDE at http://www.kde.org /.
KDE on the web
Our main communication channel is the Internet.
Please find links to KDE related web sites on this page.
www.kde.org
KDE 's official website
kde.themes.org
KDE themes
developer.kde.org
The KDE developers centre
webcvs.kde.org
A web interface to the KDE CVS repository
i18n.kde.org
KDE 's internationalisation and documentation server
ftp.kde.org
The main KDE FTP server.
Please have a look at the link below to find a mirror site in your geographic region.
www.kde.org/mirrors.html
KDE FTP mirror sites
